






OLIVER TWIST.

VOL. III.

[Illustration: _The Last Chance._]




OLIVER TWIST.


    BY

    CHARLES DICKENS.

    AUTHOR OF “THE PICKWICK PAPERS.”


    SECOND EDITION.

    IN THREE VOLUMES.

    VOL. III.

    LONDON:
    RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
    ————
    1839.




    WHITING,
    BEAUFORT HOUSE.




OLIVER TWIST.




CHAPTER XXXVII.

CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF WHAT PASSED BETWEEN MR. AND MRS. BUMBLE AND
MONKS, AT THEIR NOCTURNAL INTERVIEW.


IT was a dull, close, overcast summer evening, when the clouds, which
had been threatening all day, spread out in a dense and sluggish mass
of vapour, already yielded large drops of rain, and seemed to presage a
violent thunderstorm,—as Mr. and Mrs. Bumble, turning out of the main
street of the town, directed their course towards a scattered little
colony of ruinous houses, distant from it some mile and a-half, or
thereabouts, and erected on a low unwholesome swamp, bordering upon the
river.

They were both wrapped in old and shabby outer garments, which might
perhaps serve the double purpose of protecting their persons from the
rain, and sheltering them from observation; the husband carried a
lantern, from which, however, no light yet shone, and trudged on a few
paces in front, as though—the way being dirty—to give his wife the
benefit of treading in his heavy foot-prints. They went on in profound
silence; every now and then Mr. Bumble relaxed his pace, and turned
his head round, as if to make sure that his helpmate was following,
and, discovering that she was close at his heels, mended his rate of
walking, and proceeded at a considerable increase of speed towards
their place of destination.

This was far from being a place of doubtful character, for it had long
been known as the residence of none but low and desperate ruffians,
who, under various pretences of living by their labour, subsisted
chiefly on plunder and crime. It was a collection of mere hovels, some
hastily built with loose bricks, and others of old worm-eaten ship
timber, jumbled together without any attempt at order or arrangement,
and planted, for the most part, within a few feet of the river’s bank.
A few leaky boats drawn up on the mud, and made fast to the dwarf wall
which skirted it, and here and there an oar or coil of rope, appeared
at first to indicate that the inhabitants of these miserable cottages
pursued some avocation on the river; but a glance at the shattered
and useless condition of the articles thus displayed would have led
a passerby without much difficulty to the conjecture that they were
disposed there, rather for the preservation of appearances than with
any view to their being actually employed.

In the heart of this cluster of huts, and skirting the river, which
its upper stories overhung, stood a large building formerly used as a
manufactory of some kind, and which had in its day probably furnished
employment to the inhabitants of the surrounding tenements. But it
had long since gone to ruin. The rat, the worm, and the action of
the damp, had weakened and rotted the piles on which it stood, and a
considerable portion of the building had already sunk down into the
water beneath, while the remainder, tottering and bending over the dark
stream, seemed to wait a favourable opportunity of following its old
companion, and involving itself in the same fate.

It was before this ruinous building that the worthy couple paused as
the first peal of distant thunder reverberated in the air, and the rain
commenced pouring violently down.

“The place should be somewhere here,” said Bumble, consulting a scrap
of paper he held in his hand.

“Halloa there!” cried a voice from above.

Following the sound, Bumble raised his head, and descried a man looking
out of a door, breast-high, on the second story.

“Stand still a minute,” cried the voice; “I’ll be with you directly.”
With which the head disappeared, and the door closed.

“Is that the man?” asked Mr. Bumble’s good lady.

Mr. Bumble nodded in the affirmative.

“Then, mind what I told you,” said the matron, “and be careful to say
as little as you can, or you’ll betray us at once.”

Mr. Bumble, who had eyed the building with very rueful looks, was
apparently about to express some doubts relative to the advisability
of proceeding any farther with the enterprise just then, when he was
prevented by the appearance of Monks, who opened a small door, near
which they stood, and beckoned them inwards.

“Come!” he cried impatiently, stamping his foot upon the ground. “Don’t
keep me here!”

The woman, who had hesitated at first, walked boldly in without any
further invitation, and Mr. Bumble, who was ashamed or afraid to lag
behind, followed, obviously very ill at his ease, and with scarcely any
of that remarkable dignity which was usually his chief characteristic.

“What the devil made you stand lingering there in the wet?” said Monks,
turning round, and addressing Bumble, after he had bolted the door
behind them.

“We—we were only cooling ourselves,” stammered Bumble, looking
apprehensively about him.

“Cooling yourselves!” retorted Monks. “Not all the rain that ever fell,
or ever will fall, will put as much of hell’s fire out as a man can
carry about with him. You won’t cool yourself so easily, don’t think
it!”

With this agreeable speech Monks turned short upon the matron, and bent
his fierce gaze upon her, till even she, who was not easily cowed, was
fain to withdraw her eyes, and turn them towards the ground.

“This is the woman, is it?” demanded Monks.

“Hem! That is the woman,” replied Mr. Bumble, mindful of his wife’s
caution.

“You think women never can keep secrets, I suppose?” said the matron,
interposing, and returning as she spoke the searching look of Monks.

“I know they will always keep _one_ till it’s found out,” said Monks
contemptuously.

“And what may that be?” asked the matron in the same tone.

“The loss of their own good name,” replied Monks: “so, by the same
rule, if a woman’s a party to a secret that might hang or transport
her, I’m not afraid of her telling it to any body, not I. Do you
understand me?”

“No,” rejoined the matron, slightly colouring as she spoke.

“Of course you don’t!” said Monks ironically. “How should you?”

Bestowing something half-way between a sneer and a scowl upon his two
companions, and again beckoning them to follow him, the man hastened
across the apartment, which was of considerable extent, but low in the
roof, and was preparing to ascend a steep staircase, or rather ladder,
leading to another floor of warehouses above, when a bright flash of
lightning streamed down the aperture, and a peal of thunder followed,
which shook the crazy building to its centre.

“Hear it!” he cried, shrinking back. “Hear it rolling and crashing away
as if it echoed through a thousand caverns, where the devils are hiding
from it. Fire the sound! I hate it.”

He remained silent for a few moments, and then removing his hands
suddenly from his face, showed, to the unspeakable discomposure of Mr.
Bumble, that it was much distorted, and nearly blank.

“These fits come over me now and then,” said Monks, observing his
alarm, “and thunder sometimes brings them on. Don’t mind me now; it’s
all over for this once.”

Thus speaking, he led the way up the ladder, and hastily closing the
window-shutter of the room into which it led, lowered a lantern which
hung at the end of a rope and pulley passed through one of the heavy
beams in the ceiling, and which cast a dim light upon an old table and
three chairs that were placed beneath it.

“Now,” said Monks, when they had all three seated themselves, “the
sooner we come to our business, the better for all. The woman knows
what it is, does she?”

The question was addressed to Bumble; but his wife anticipated the
reply, by intimating that she was perfectly acquainted with it.

“He is right in saying that you were with this hag the night she died,
and that she told you something—”

“About the mother of the boy you named,” replied the matron
interrupting him. “Yes.”

“The first question is, of what nature was her communication?” said
Monks.

“That’s the second,” observed the woman with much deliberation. “The
first is, what may the communication be worth?”

“Who the devil can tell that, without knowing of what kind it is?”
asked Monks.

“Nobody better than you, I am persuaded,” answered Mrs. Bumble, who did
not want for spirit, as her yokefellow could abundantly testify.

“Humph!” said Monks significantly, and with a look of eager inquiry,
“there may be money’s worth to get, eh?”

“Perhaps there may,” was the composed reply.

“Something that was taken from her,” said Monks eagerly; “something
that she wore—something that—”

“You had better bid,” interrupted Mrs. Bumble. “I have heard enough
already to assure me that you are the man I ought to talk to.”

Mr. Bumble, who had not yet been admitted by his better half into
any greater share of the secret than he had originally possessed,
listened to this dialogue with outstretched neck and distended eyes,
which he directed towards his wife and Monks by turns in undisguised
astonishment; increased, if possible, when the latter sternly demanded
what sum was required for the disclosure.

“What’s it worth to you?” asked the woman, as collectedly as before.

“It may be nothing; it may be twenty pounds,” replied Monks; “speak
out, and let me know which.”

“Add five pounds to the sum you have named; give me five-and-twenty
pounds in gold,” said the woman, “and I’ll tell you all I know—not
before.”

“Five-and-twenty pounds!” exclaimed Monks, drawing back.

“I spoke as plainly as I could,” replied Mrs. Bumble, “and it’s not a
large sum either.”

“Not a large sum for a paltry secret, that may be nothing when it’s
told!” cried Monks impatiently, “and which has been lying dead for
twelve years past, or more!”

“Such matters keep well, and, like good wine, often double their value
in course of time,” answered the matron, still preserving the resolute
indifference she had assumed. “As to lying dead, there are those who
will lie dead for twelve thousand years to come, or twelve million, for
any thing you or I know, who will tell strange tales at last!”

“What if I pay it for nothing?” asked Monks, hesitating.

“You can easily take it away again,” replied the matron. “I am but a
woman, alone here, and unprotected.”

“Not alone, my dear, nor unprotected neither,” submitted Mr. Bumble, in
a voice tremulous with fear; “_I_ am here, my dear. And besides,” said
Mr. Bumble, his teeth chattering as he spoke, “Mr. Monks is too much of
a gentleman to attempt any violence on parochial persons. Mr. Monks is
aware that I am not a young man, my dear, and also that I am a little
run to seed, as I may say; but he has heerd—I say I have no doubt
Mr. Monks has heerd, my dear—that I am a very determined officer,
with very uncommon strength, if I’m once roused. I only want a little
rousing, that’s all.”

As Mr. Bumble spoke, he made a melancholy feint of grasping his
lantern with fierce determination, and plainly showed, by the alarmed
expression of every feature, that he did want a little rousing, and
not a little, prior to making any very warlike demonstration, unless,
indeed, against paupers, or other person or persons trained down for
the purpose.

“You are a fool,” said Mrs. Bumble, in reply, “and had better hold your
tongue.”

“He had better have cut it out before he came, if he can’t speak in a
lower tone,” said Monks, grimly. “So he’s your husband, eh?”

“He my husband!” tittered the matron, parrying the question.

“I thought as much when you came in,” rejoined Monks, marking the angry
glance which the lady darted at her spouse as she spoke. “So much the
better; I have less hesitation in dealing with two people, when I find
that there’s only one will between them. I’m in earnest—see here.”

He thrust his hand into a side-pocket, and producing a canvass bag,
told out twenty-five sovereigns on the table, and pushed them over to
the woman.

“Now,” he said, “gather them up; and when this cursed peal of thunder,
that I feel is coming up to break over the house-top, is gone, let’s
hear your story.”

The roar of thunder, which seemed in fact much nearer, and to shiver
and break almost over their heads, having subsided, Monks, raising his
face from the table, bent forward to listen to what the woman should
say. The faces of the three nearly touched as the two men leant over
the small table in their eagerness to hear, and the woman also leant
forward to render her whisper audible. The sickly rays of the suspended
lantern falling directly upon them, aggravated the paleness and anxiety
of their countenances, which, encircled by the deepest gloom and
darkness, looked ghastly in the extreme.

“When this woman, that we called old Sally, died,” the matron began,
“she and I were alone.”

“Was there no one by?” asked Monks, in the same hollow whisper, “no
sick wretch or idiot in some other bed?—no one who could hear, and
might by possibility understand?”

“Not a soul,” replied the woman; “we were alone: _I_ stood alone beside
the body when death came over it.”

“Good,” said Monks, regarding her attentively: “go on.”

“She spoke of a young creature,” resumed the matron, “who had brought
a child into the world some years before: not merely in the same room,
but in the same bed in which she then lay dying.”

“Ay?” said Monks, with quivering lip, and glancing over his shoulder.
“Blood! How things come about at last!”

“The child was the one you named to him last night,” said the matron,
nodding carelessly towards her husband; “the mother this nurse had
robbed.”

“In life?” asked Monks.

“In death,” replied the woman, with something like a shudder. “She
stole from the corpse, when it had hardly turned to one, that which
the dead mother had prayed her with her last breath to keep for the
infant’s sake.”

“She sold it?” cried Monks, with desperate eagerness; “did she sell
it?—where?—when?—to whom?—how long before?”

“As she told me with great difficulty that she had done this,” said the
matron, “she fell back and died.”

“Without saying more?” cried Monks, in a voice which, from its very
suppression, seemed only the more furious. “It’s a lie! I’ll not be
played with. She said more—I’ll tear the life out of you both, but
I’ll know what it was.”

“She didn’t utter another word,” said the woman, to all appearance
unmoved (as Mr. Bumble was very far from being) by the strange man’s
violence; “but she clutched my gown violently with one hand, which was
partly closed, and when I saw that she was dead, and so removed the
hand by force, I found it clasped a scrap of dirty paper.”

“Which contained—” interposed Monks, stretching forward.

“Nothing,” replied the woman; “it was a pawnbroker’s duplicate.”

“For what?” demanded Monks.

“In good time I’ll tell you,” said the woman. “I judge that she had
kept the trinket for some time, in the hope of turning it to better
account, and then pawned it, and saved or scraped together money to pay
the pawnbroker’s interest year by year, and prevent its running out, so
that if any thing came of it, it could still be redeemed. Nothing had
come of it; and, as I tell you, she died with the scrap of paper, all
worn and tattered, in her hand. The time was out in two days; I thought
something might one day come of it too, and so redeemed the pledge.”

“Where is it now?” asked Monks quickly.

“_There_,” replied the woman. And, as if glad to be relieved of it, she
hastily threw upon the table a small kid bag scarcely large enough for
a French watch, which Monks pouncing upon, tore open with trembling
hands. It contained a little gold locket, in which were two locks of
hair, and a plain gold wedding-ring.

“It has the word ‘Agnes’ engraved on the inside,” said the woman.
“There is a blank left for the surname, and then follows the date,
which is within a year before the child was born; I found out that.”

“And this is all?” said Monks, after a close and eager scrutiny of the
contents of the little packet.

“All,” replied the woman.

Mr. Bumble drew a long breath, as if he were glad to find that the
story was over, and no mention made of taking the five-and-twenty
pounds back again; and now took courage to wipe off the perspiration,
which had been trickling over his nose unchecked during the whole of
the previous conversation.

“I know nothing of the story beyond what I can guess at,” said his
wife, addressing Monks after a short silence, “and I want to know
nothing, for it’s safer not. But I may ask you two questions, may I?”

“You may ask,” said Monks, with some show of surprise, “but whether I
answer or not is another question.”

“—Which makes three,” observed Mr. Bumble, essaying a stroke of
facetiousness.

“Is that what you expected to get from me?” demanded the matron.

“It is,” replied Monks. “The other question?—”

“What you propose to do with it. Can it be used against me?”

“Never,” rejoined Monks; “nor against me either. See here; but don’t
move a step forward, or your life’s not worth a bulrush!”

With these words he suddenly wheeled the table aside, and pulling an
iron ring in the boarding, threw back a large trap-door which opened
close at Mr. Bumble’s feet, and caused that gentleman to retire several
paces backward with great precipitation.

“Look down,” said Monks, lowering the lantern into the gulf. “Don’t
fear me. I could have let you down quietly enough when you were seated
over it, if that had been my game.”

Thus encouraged, the matron drew near to the brink, and even Mr. Bumble
himself, impelled by curiosity, ventured to do the same. The turbid
water, swollen by the heavy rain, was rushing rapidly on below, and
all other sounds were lost in the noise of its plashing and eddying
against the green and slimy piles. There had once been a water-mill
beneath, and the tide, foaming and chafing round the few rotten stakes,
and fragments of machinery, that yet remained, seemed to dart onward
with a new impulse when freed from the obstacles which had unavailingly
attempted to stem its headlong course.

“If you flung a man’s body down there, where would it be to-morrow
morning?” said Monks, swinging the lantern to and fro in the dark well.

“Twelve miles down the river, and cut to pieces besides,” replied
Bumble, recoiling at the very notion.

Monks drew the little packet from his breast, into which he had
hurriedly thrust it, and tying it firmly to a leaden weight which had
formed a part of some pulley, and was lying on the floor, dropped it
into the stream. It fell straight, and true as a die, clove the water
with a scarcely audible splash, and was gone.

[Illustration: _The evidence destroyed._]

The three looked into each other’s faces, and seemed to breathe more
freely.

“There!” said Monks, closing the trap-door, which fell heavily back
into its former position. “If the sea ever gives up its dead—as books
say it will—it will keep its gold and silver to itself, and that trash
among it. We have nothing more to say, and may break up our pleasant
party.”

“By all means,” observed Mr. Bumble with great alacrity.

“You’ll keep a quiet tongue in your head, will you?” said Monks, with a
threatening look. “I am not afraid of your wife.”

“You may depend upon me, young man,” answered Mr. Bumble, bowing
himself gradually towards the ladder with excessive politeness. “On
every body’s account, young man; on my own, you know, Mr. Monks.”

“I am glad for your sake to hear it,” remarked Monks. “Light your
lantern, and get away from here as fast as you can.”

It was fortunate that the conversation terminated at this point, or
Mr. Bumble, who had bowed himself to within six inches of the ladder,
would infallibly have pitched headlong into the room below. He lighted
his lantern from that which Monks had detached from the rope, and now
carried in his hand, and, making no effort to prolong the discourse,
descended in silence, followed by his wife. Monks brought up the rear,
after pausing on the steps to satisfy himself that there were no other
sounds to be heard than the beating of the rain without, and the
rushing of the water.

They traversed the lower room slowly, and with caution, for Monks
started at every shadow, and Mr. Bumble, holding his lantern a foot
above the ground, walked not only with remarkable care, but with
a marvellously light step for a gentleman of his figure: looking
nervously about him for hidden trap-doors. The gate at which they
had entered was softly unfastened and opened by Monks, and, merely
exchanging a nod with their mysterious acquaintance, the married couple
emerged into the wet and darkness outside.

They were no sooner gone, than Monks, who appeared to entertain an
invincible repugnance to being left alone, called to a boy who had been
hidden somewhere below, and bidding him go first, and bear the light,
returned to the chamber he had just quitted.




CHAPTER XXXVIII.

INTRODUCES SOME RESPECTABLE CHARACTERS WITH WHOM THE READER IS ALREADY
ACQUAINTED, AND SHOWS HOW MONKS AND THE JEW LAID THEIR WORTHY HEADS
TOGETHER.


IT was about two hours earlier on the evening following that upon which
the three worthies mentioned in the last chapter disposed of their
little matter of business as therein narrated, when Mr. William Sikes,
awakening from a nap, drowsily growled forth an inquiry what time of
night it was.

The room in which Mr. Sikes propounded this question was not one of
those he had tenanted previous to the Chertsey expedition, although
it was in the same quarter of the town, and was situated at no
great distance from his former lodgings. It was not in appearance
so desirable a habitation as his old quarters, being a mean and
badly-furnished apartment of very limited size, lighted only by
one small window in the shelving roof, and abutting upon a close
and dirty lane. Nor were there wanting other indications of the
good gentleman’s having gone down in the world of late; for a great
scarcity of furniture, and total absence of comfort, together with the
disappearance of all such small moveables as spare clothes and linen,
bespoke a state of extreme poverty, while the meager and attenuated
condition of Mr. Sikes himself would have fully confirmed these
symptoms if they had stood in need of corroboration.

The housebreaker was lying on the bed wrapped in his white great-coat,
by way of dressing-gown, and displaying a set of features in no degree
improved by the cadaverous hue of illness, and the addition of a
soiled nightcap, and a stiff, black beard of a week’s growth. The dog
sat at the bedside, now eyeing his master with a wistful look, and
now pricking his ears, and uttering a low growl as some noise in the
street, or in the lower part of the house, attracted his attention.
Seated by the window, busily engaged in patching an old waistcoat which
formed a portion of the robber’s ordinary dress, was a female, so pale
and reduced with watching and privation that there would have been
considerable difficulty in recognising her as the same Nancy who has
already figured in this tale, but for the voice in which she replied to
Mr. Sikes’s question.

“Not long gone seven,” said the girl. “How do you feel to-night, Bill?”

“As weak as water,” replied Mr. Sikes, with an imprecation on his eyes
and limbs. “Here; lend us a hand, and let me get off this thundering
bed, anyhow.”

Illness had not improved Mr. Sikes’s temper, for, as the girl raised
him up, and led him to a chair, he muttered various curses upon her
awkwardness, and struck her.

“Whining, are you?” said Sikes. “Come; don’t stand snivelling there. If
you can’t do any thing better than that, cut off altogether. D’ye hear
me?”

“I hear you,” replied the girl, turning her face aside, and forcing a
laugh. “What fancy have you got in your head now?”

“Oh! you’ve thought better of it, have you?” growled Sikes, marking the
tear which trembled in her eye. “All the better for you, you have.”

“Why, you don’t mean to say you’d be hard upon me to-night, Bill,” said
the girl, laying her hand upon his shoulder.

“No!” cried Mr. Sikes. “Why not?”

“Such a number of nights,” said the girl, with a touch of woman’s
tenderness, which communicated something like sweetness of tone even
to her voice,—“such a number of nights as I’ve been patient with you,
nursing and caring for you, as if you had been a child, and this the
first that I’ve seen you like yourself; you wouldn’t have served me as
you did just now, if you’d thought of that, would you? Come, come; say
you wouldn’t.”

“Well, then,” rejoined Mr. Sikes. “I wouldn’t. Why, damme, now, the
girl’s whining again!”

[Illustration: _Mr. Fagin and his pupil recovering Nancy._]

“It’s nothing,” said the girl, throwing herself into a chair. “Don’t
you seem to mind me, and it’ll soon be over.”

“What’ll be over?” demanded Mr. Sikes in a savage voice. “What foolery
are you up to now again? Get up, and bustle about, and don’t come over
me with your woman’s nonsense.”

At any other time this remonstrance, and the tone in which it was
delivered, would have had the desired effect; but the girl being really
weak and exhausted, dropped her head over the back of the chair, and
fainted, before Mr. Sikes could get out a few of the appropriate oaths
with which on similar occasions he was accustomed to garnish his
threats. Not knowing very well what to do in this uncommon emergency,
for Miss Nancy’s hysterics were usually of that violent kind which the
patient fights and struggles out of without much assistance, Mr.
Sikes tried a little blasphemy, and finding that mode of treatment
wholly ineffectual, called for assistance.

“What’s the matter here, my dear?” said the Jew, looking in.

“Lend a hand to the girl, can’t you?” replied Sikes impatiently, “and
don’t stand chattering and grinning at me!”

With an exclamation of surprise Fagin hastened to the girl’s
assistance, while Mr. John Dawkins (otherwise the Artful Dodger), who
had followed his venerable friend into the room, hastily deposited on
the floor a bundle with which he was laden, and, snatching a bottle
from the grasp of Master Charles Bates who came close at his heels,
uncorked it in a twinkling with his teeth, and poured a portion of its
contents down the patient’s throat; previously taking a taste himself
to prevent mistakes.

“Give her a whiff of fresh air with the bellows, Charley,” said
Mr. Dawkins; “and you slap her hands, Fagin, while Bill undoes the
petticuts.”

These united restoratives, administered with great energy, especially
that department consigned to Master Bates, who appeared to consider
his share in the proceeding a piece of unexampled pleasantry, were not
long in producing the desired effect. The girl gradually recovered
her senses, and, staggering to a chair by the bedside, hid her face
upon the pillow, leaving Mr. Sikes to confront the new-comers, in some
astonishment at their unlooked-for appearance.

“Why, what evil wind has blowed you here?” he asked of Fagin.

“No evil wind at all, my dear,” replied the Jew; “for ill winds blow
nobody any good, and I’ve brought something good with me that you’ll be
glad to see. Dodger, my dear, open the bundle, and give Bill the little
trifles that we spent all our money on this morning.”

In compliance with Mr. Fagin’s request, the Artful untied his bundle,
which was of large size, and formed of an old tablecloth, and handed
the articles it contained, one by one, to Charley Bates, who placed
them on the table, with various encomiums on their rarity and
excellence.

“Sitch a rabbit pie, Bill!” exclaimed that young gentleman, disclosing
to view a huge pasty; “sitch delicate creeturs, with sitch tender
limbs, Bill, that the wery bones melt in your mouth, and there’s no
occasion to pick ’em; half a pound of seven and sixpenny green, so
precious strong that if you mix it with boiling water, it’ll go nigh to
blow the lid of the teapot off; a pound and a half of moist sugar that
the niggers didn’t work at all at afore they got it to sitch a pitch
of goodness,—oh no! two half-quartern brans; pound of best fresh;
piece of double Glo’ster; and, to wind up all, some of the richest sort
you ever lushed.” Uttering this last panegyric, Master Bates produced
from one of his extensive pockets a full-sized wine-bottle, carefully
corked, while Mr. Dawkins at the same instant poured out a wine
glassful of raw spirits from the bottle he carried, which the invalid
tossed down his throat without a moment’s hesitation.

“Ah!” said the Jew, rubbing his hands with great satisfaction. “You’ll
do, Bill; you’ll do now.”

“Do!” exclaimed Mr. Sikes; “I might have been done for twenty times
over, afore you’d have done any thing to help me. What do you mean by
leaving a man in this state three weeks and more, you false-hearted
wagabond?”

“Only hear him, boys!” said the Jew, shrugging his shoulders; “and us
come to bring him all these beautiful things.”

“The things is well enough in their way,” observed Mr. Sikes, a little
soothed as he glanced over the table; “but what have you got to say
for yourself why you should leave me here, down in the mouth, health,
blunt, and every thing else, and take no more notice of me all this
mortal time than if I was that ’ere dog.—Drive him down, Charley.”

“I never see such a jolly dog as that,” cried Master Bates, doing as
he was desired. “Smelling the grub like a old lady a-going to market!
He’d make his fortun on the stage that dog would, and rewive the drayma
besides.”

“Hold your din,” cried Sikes, as the dog retreated under the bed, still
growling angrily. “And what have you got to say for yourself, you
withered old fence, eh?”

“I was away from London a week and more, my dear, on a plant,” replied
the Jew.

“And what about the other fortnight?” demanded Sikes. “What about the
other fortnight that you’ve left me lying here, like a sick rat in his
hole?”

“I couldn’t help it, Bill,” replied the Jew. “I can’t go into a long
explanation before company; but I couldn’t help it, upon my honour.”

“Upon your what?” growled Sikes with excessive disgust. “Here, cut me
off a piece of the pie, one of you boys, to take the taste of that out
of my mouth, or it’ll choke me dead.”

“Don’t be out of temper, my dear,” urged the Jew submissively. “I have
never forgot you, Bill; never once.”

“No, I’ll pound it, that you han’t,” replied Sikes with a bitter grin.
“You’ve been scheming and plotting away every hour that I’ve laid
shivering and burning here; and Bill was to do this, and Bill was to do
that, and Bill was to do it all dirt cheap, as soon as he got well, and
was quite poor enough for your work. If it hadn’t been for the girl, I
might have died.”

“There now, Bill,” remonstrated the Jew, eagerly catching at the word.
“If it hadn’t been for the girl! Who was the means of your having such
a handy girl about you but me?”

“He says true enough there, God knows!” said Nancy, coming hastily
forward. “Let him be, let him be.”

Nancy’s appearance gave a new turn to the conversation, for the boys,
receiving a sly wink from the wary old Jew, began to ply her with
liquor, of which, however, she partook very sparingly; while Fagin,
assuming an unusual flow of spirits, gradually brought Mr. Sikes into a
better temper, by affecting to regard his threats as a little pleasant
banter, and, moreover, laughing very heartily at one or two rough
jokes, which, after repeated applications to the spirit-bottle, he
condescended to make.

“It’s all very well,” said Mr. Sikes; “but I must have some blunt from
you to-night.”

“I haven’t a piece of coin about me,” replied the Jew.

“Then you’ve got lots at home,” retorted Sikes, “and I must have some
from there.”

“Lots!” cried the Jew, holding up his hands. “I haven’t so much as
would——”

“I don’t know how much you’ve got, and I dare say you hardly know
yourself, as it would take a pretty long time to count it,” said Sikes;
“but I must have some to-night, and that’s flat.”

“Well, well,” said the Jew, with a sigh, “I’ll send the Artful round
presently.”

“You won’t do nothing of the kind,” rejoined Mr. Sikes. “The Artful’s
a deal too artful, and would forget to come, or lose his way, or get
dodged by traps and so be perwented, or any thing for an excuse, if you
put him up to it. Nancy shall go to the ken and fetch it, to make all
sure, and I’ll lie down and have a snooze while she’s gone.”

After a great deal of haggling and squabbling, the Jew beat down the
amount of the required advance from five pounds to three pounds four
and sixpence, protesting with many solemn asseverations that that would
only leave him eighteenpence to keep house with; Mr. Sikes sullenly
remarking that if he couldn’t get any more he must be content with
that, Nancy prepared to accompany him home; while the Dodger and Master
Bates put the eatables in the cupboard. The Jew then, taking leave of
his affectionate friend, returned homewards, attended by Nancy and the
boys, Mr. Sikes meanwhile flinging himself on the bed, and composing
himself to sleep away the time until the young lady’s return.

In due time they arrived at the Jew’s abode, where they found Toby
Crackit and Mr. Chitling intent upon their fifteenth game at cribbage,
which it is scarcely necessary to say the latter gentleman lost, and
with it his fifteenth and last sixpence, much to the amusement of his
young friends. Mr. Crackit, apparently somewhat ashamed at being found
relaxing himself with a gentleman so much his inferior in station and
mental endowments, yawned, and, inquiring after Sikes, took up his hat
to go.

“Has nobody been, Toby?” asked the Jew.

“Not a living leg,” answered Mr. Crackit, pulling up his collar: “it’s
been as dull as swipes. You ought to stand something handsome, Fagin,
to recompense me for keeping house so long. Damme, I’m as flat as a
jury-man, and should have gone to sleep as fast as Newgate, if I hadn’t
had the good natur’ to amuse this youngster. Horrid dull, I’m blessed
if I an’t.”

With these and other ejaculations of the same kind, Mr. Toby Crackit
swept up his winnings, and crammed them into his waistcoat pocket
with a haughty air, as though such small pieces of silver were wholly
beneath the consideration of a man of his figure, and swaggered out
of the room with so much elegance and gentility, that Mr. Chitling,
bestowing numerous admiring glances on his legs and boots till
they were out of sight, assured the company that he considered his
acquaintance cheap at fifteen sixpences an interview, and that he
didn’t value his losses the snap of a little finger.

“Wot a rum chap you are, Tom!” said Master Bates, highly amused by this
declaration.

“Not a bit of it,” replied Mr. Chitling: “am I, Fagin?”

“A very clever fellow, my dear,” said the Jew, patting him on the
shoulder, and winking to his other pupils.

“And Mr. Crackit _is_ a heavy swell, an’t he, Fagin?” asked Tom.

“No doubt at all of that, my dear,” replied the Jew.

“And it _is_ a creditable thing to have his acquaintance, an’t it,
Fagin?” pursued Tom.

“Very much so, indeed, my dear,” replied the Jew. “They’re only
jealous, Tom, because he won’t give it to them.”

“Ah!” cried Tom, triumphantly, “that’s where it is. He has cleaned me
out; but I can go and earn some more when I like,—can’t I, Fagin?”

“To be sure you can,” replied the Jew; “and the sooner you go, the
better, Tom; so make up your loss at once, and don’t lose any more
time. Dodger, Charley, it’s time you were on the lay:—come, it’s near
ten, and nothing done yet.”

In obedience to this hint, the boys, nodding to Nancy, took up their
hats and left the room; the Dodger and his vivacious friend indulging
as they went in many witticisms at the expense of Mr. Chitling, in
whose conduct, it is but justice to say, there was nothing very
conspicuous or peculiar, inasmuch as there are a great number of
spirited young bloods upon town who pay a much higher price than Mr.
Chitling for being seen in good society, and a great number of fine
gentlemen (composing the good society aforesaid) who establish their
reputation upon very much the same footing as flash Toby Crackit.

“Now,” said the Jew, when they had left the room, “I’ll go and get you
that cash, Nancy. This is only the key of a little cupboard where I
keep a few odd things the boys get, my dear. I never lock up my money,
for I’ve got none to lock up, my dear—ha! ha! ha!—none to lock. It’s
a poor trade, Nancy, and no thanks; but I’m fond of seeing the young
people about me, and I bear it all; I bear it all. Hush!” he said,
hastily concealing the key in his breast; “who’s that? Listen!”

The girl, who was sitting at the table with her arms folded, appeared
in no way interested in the arrival, or to care whether the person,
whoever he was, came or went, until the murmur of a man’s voice reached
her ears. The instant she caught the sound she tore off her bonnet and
shawl with the rapidity of lightning, and thrust them under the table.
The Jew turning round immediately afterwards, she muttered a complaint
of the heat in a tone of languor that contrasted very remarkably with
the extreme haste and violence of this action, which, however, had been
unobserved by Fagin, who had his back towards her at the time.

“Bah!” whispered the Jew, as though nettled by the interruption; “it’s
the man I expected before; he’s coming down stairs. Not a word about
the money while he’s here, Nance. He won’t stop long—not ten minutes,
my dear.”

Laying his skinny forefinger upon his lip, the Jew carried a candle to
the door as a man’s step was heard upon the stairs without, and reached
it at the same moment as the visiter, who coming hastily into the room,
was close upon the girl before he observed her.

It was Monks.

“Only one of my young people,” said the Jew, observing that Monks drew
back on beholding a stranger. “Don’t move, Nancy.”

The girl drew closer to the table, and glancing at Monks with an air
of careless levity, withdrew her eyes; but as he turned his towards
the Jew, she stole another look, so keen and searching, and full of
purpose, that if there had been any bystander to observe the change he
could hardly have believed the two looks to have proceeded from the
same person.

“Any news?” inquired the Jew.

“Great.”

“And—and—good?” asked the Jew hesitatingly, as though he feared to
vex the other man by being too sanguine.

“Not bad any way,” replied Monks with a smile. “I have been prompt
enough this time. Let me have a word with you.”

The girl drew closer to the table, and made no offer to leave the room,
although she could see that Monks was pointing to her. The Jew—perhaps
fearing that she might say something aloud about the money, if he
endeavoured to get rid of her—pointed upwards, and took Monks out of
the room.

“Not that infernal hole we were in before,” she could hear the man say
as they went up stairs. The Jew laughed, and making some reply which
did not reach her, seemed by the creaking of the boards to lead his
companion to the second story.

Before the sound of their footsteps had ceased to echo through the
house, the girl had slipped off her shoes, and drawing her gown
loosely over her head, and muffling her arms in it, stood at the door
listening with breathless interest. The moment the noise ceased she
glided from the room, ascended the stairs with incredible softness and
silence, and was lost in the gloom above.

The room remained deserted for a quarter of an hour or more; the girl
glided back with the same unearthly tread; and immediately afterwards
the two men were heard descending. Monks went at once into the street,
and the Jew crawled up stairs again for the money. When he returned,
the girl was adjusting her shawl and bonnet, as if preparing to be gone.

“Why, Nance,” exclaimed the Jew, starting back as he put down the
candle, “how pale you are!”

“Pale!” echoed the girl, shading her eyes with her hands as if to look
steadily at him.

“Quite horrible,” said the Jew. “What have you been doing to yourself?”

“Nothing that I know of, except sitting in this close place for I don’t
know how long and all,” replied the girl carelessly. “Come, let me get
back; that’s a dear.”

With a sigh for every piece of money, Fagin told the amount into her
hand, and they parted without more conversation than interchanging a
“good-night.”

When the girl got into the open street she sat down upon a door-step,
and seemed for a few moments wholly bewildered and unable to pursue
her way. Suddenly she arose, and hurrying on in a direction quite
opposite to that in which Sikes was awaiting her return, quickened her
pace, until it gradually resolved into a violent run. After completely
exhausting herself, she stopped to take breath, and, as if suddenly
recollecting herself, and deploring her inability to do something she
was bent upon, wrung her hands, and burst into tears.

It might be that her tears relieved her, or that she felt the full
hopelessness of her condition; but she turned back, and hurrying with
nearly as great rapidity in the contrary direction, partly to recover
lost time, and partly to keep pace with the violent current of her own
thoughts, soon reached the dwelling where she had left the housebreaker.

If she betrayed any agitation by the time she presented herself to Mr.
Sikes, he did not observe it; for merely inquiring if she had brought
the money, and receiving a reply in the affirmative, he uttered a growl
of satisfaction, and replacing his head upon his pillow, resumed the
slumbers which her arrival had interrupted.




CHAPTER XXXIX.

A STRANGE INTERVIEW, WHICH IS A SEQUEL TO THE LAST CHAPTER.


IT was fortunate for the girl that the possession of money occasioned
Mr. Sikes so much employment next day in the way of eating and
drinking, and withal had so beneficial an effect in smoothing down the
asperities of his temper that he had neither time nor inclination to
be very critical upon her behaviour and deportment. That she had all
the abstracted and nervous manner of one who is on the eve of some
bold and hazardous step, which it has required no common struggle to
resolve upon, would have been obvious to his lynx-eyed friend, the
Jew, who would most probably have taken the alarm at once; but Mr.
Sikes lacking the niceties of discrimination, and being troubled
with no more subtle misgivings than those which resolve themselves
into a dogged roughness of behaviour towards every body, and being,
furthermore, in an unusually amiable condition, as has been already
observed, saw nothing unusual in her demeanour, and indeed, troubled
himself so little about her, that, had her agitation been far more
perceptible than it was, it would have been very unlikely to have
awakened his suspicions.

As the day closed in, the girl’s excitement increased, and, when night
came on, and she sat by, watching till the housebreaker should drink
himself asleep, there was an unusual paleness in her cheek, and fire in
her eye, that even Sikes observed with astonishment.

Mr. Sikes, being weak from the fever, was lying in bed, taking hot
water with his gin to render it less inflammatory, and had pushed his
glass towards Nancy to be replenished for the third or fourth time,
when these symptoms first struck him.

“Why, burn my body!” said the man, raising himself on his hands as
he stared the girl in the face. “You look like a corpse come to life
again. What’s the matter?”

“Matter!” replied the girl. “Nothing. What do you look at me so hard
for?”

“What foolery is this?” demanded Sikes, grasping her by the arm, and
shaking her roughly. “What is it? What do you mean? What are you
thinking of, ha?”

“Of many things, Bill,” replied the girl, shuddering, and as she did
so, pressing her hands upon her eyes. “But, Lord! what odds in that?”

The tone of forced gaiety in which the last words were spoken seemed to
produce a deeper impression on Sikes than the wild and rigid look which
had preceded them.

“I tell you wot it is,” said Sikes, “if you haven’t caught the fever,
and got it comin’ on now, there’s something more than usual in the
wind, and something dangerous, too. You’re not a-going to—— No,
damme! you wouldn’t do that!”

“Do what?” asked the girl.

“There ain’t,” said Sikes, fixing his eyes upon her, and muttering the
words to himself, “there ain’t a stauncher-hearted gal going, or I’d
have cut her throat three months ago. She’s got the fever coming on;
that’s it.”

Fortifying himself with this assurance, Sikes drained the glass to the
bottom, and then, with many grumbling oaths, called for his physic. The
girl jumped up with great alacrity, poured it quickly out, but with her
back towards him: and held the vessel to his lips, while he drank it
off.

“Now,” said the robber, “come and sit aside of me, and put on your own
face, or I’ll alter it so that you won’t know it again when you _do_
want it.”

The girl obeyed, and Sikes, locking her hand in his, fell back upon
the pillow, turning his eyes upon her face. They closed, opened again;
closed once more, again opened; the housebreaker shifted his position
restlessly, and, after dozing again and again for two or three minutes,
and as often springing up with a look of terror, and gazing vacantly
about him, was suddenly stricken, as it were, while in the very
attitude of rising, into a deep and heavy sleep. The grasp of his hand
relaxed, the upraised arm fell languidly by his side, and he lay like
one in a profound trance.

“The laudanum has taken effect at last,” murmured the girl as she rose
from the bedside. “I may be too late even now.”

She hastily dressed herself in her bonnet and shawl, looking fearfully
round from time to time as if, despite the sleeping draught, she
expected every moment to feel the pressure of Sikes’s heavy hand
upon her shoulder; then stooping softly over the bed, she kissed the
robber’s lips, and opening and closing the room-door with noiseless
touch, hurried from the house.

A watchman was crying half-past nine down a dark passage through which
she had to pass in gaining the main thoroughfare.

“Has it long gone the half-hour?” asked the girl.

“It’ll strike the hour in another quarter,” said the man, raising his
lantern to her face.

“And I cannot get there in less than an hour or more,” muttered Nancy,
brushing swiftly past him and gliding rapidly down the street.

Many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues
through which she tracked her way in making from Spitalfields
towards the West-End of London. The clock struck ten, increasing her
impatience. She tore along the narrow pavement, elbowing the passengers
from side to side and darting almost under the horses’ heads, crossed
crowded streets, where clusters of persons were eagerly watching their
opportunity to do the like.

“The woman is mad!” said the people, turning to look after her as she
rushed away.

When she reached the more wealthy quarter of the town, the streets
were comparatively deserted, and here her headlong progress seemed to
excite a greater curiosity in the stragglers whom she hurried past.
Some quickened their pace behind, as though to see whither she was
hastening at such an unusual rate; and a few made head upon her, and
looked back, surprised at her undiminished speed, but they fell off one
by one; and when she neared her place of destination she was alone.

It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near Hyde Park.
As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before its door guided
her to the spot, the clock struck eleven. She had loitered for a few
paces as though irresolute, and making up her mind to advance; but the
sound determined her, and she stepped into the hall. The porter’s seat
was vacant. She looked round with an air of incertitude, and advanced
towards the stairs.

“Now, young woman,” said a smartly-dressed female, looking out from a
door behind her, “who do you want here?”

“A lady who is stopping in this house,” answered the girl.

“A lady!” was the reply, accompanied with a scornful look. “What lady,
pray?”

“Miss Maylie,” said Nancy.

The young woman, who had by this time noted her appearance, replied
only by a look of virtuous disdain, and summoned a man to answer her.
To him Nancy repeated her request.

“What name am I to say?” asked the waiter.

“It’s of no use saying any,” replied Nancy.

“Nor business?” said the man.

“No, nor that neither,” rejoined the girl. “I must see the lady.”

“Come,” said the man, pushing her towards the door, “none of this! Take
yourself off, will you?”

“I shall be carried out if I go!” said the girl violently, “and I can
make that a job that two of you won’t like to do. Isn’t there any body
here,” she said, looking round, “that will see a simple message carried
for a poor wretch like me?”

This appeal produced an effect on a good-tempered-faced man-cook, who
with some other of the servants was looking on, and who stepped forward
to interfere.

“Take it up for her, Joe, can’t you?” said this person.

“What’s the good?” replied the man. “You don’t suppose the young lady
will see such as her, do you?”

This allusion to Nancy’s doubtful character raised a vast quantity of
chaste wrath in the bosoms of four housemaids, who remarked with great
fervour that the creature was a disgrace to her sex, and strongly
advocated her being thrown ruthlessly into the kennel.

“Do what you like with me,” said the girl, turning to the men again;
“but do what I ask you first; and I ask you to give this message for
God Almighty’s sake.”

The soft-hearted cook added his intercession, and the result was that
the man who had first appeared undertook its delivery.

“What’s it to be?” said the man, with one foot on the stairs.

“That a young woman earnestly asks to speak to Miss Maylie alone,” said
Nancy; “and, that if the lady will only hear the first word she has to
say, she will know whether to hear her business, or have her turned
out of doors as an impostor.”

“I say,” said the man, “you’re coming it strong!”

“You give the message,” said the girl firmly, “and let me hear the
answer.”

The man ran up stairs, and Nancy remained pale and almost breathless,
listening with quivering lip to the very audible expressions of scorn,
of which the chaste housemaids were very prolific; and became still
more so when the man returned, and said the young woman was to walk up
stairs.

“It’s no good being proper in this world,” said the first housemaid.

“Brass can do better than the gold what has stood the fire,” said the
second.

The third contented herself with wondering “what ladies was made of;”
and the fourth took the first in a quartette of “Shameful!” with which
the Dianas concluded.

Regardless of all this—for she had weightier matters at heart—Nancy
followed the man with trembling limbs to a small antechamber, lighted
by a lamp from the ceiling, in which he left her, and retired.

The girl’s life had been squandered in the streets, and the most
noisome of the stews and dens of London, but there was something of the
woman’s original nature left in her still; and when she heard a light
step approaching the door opposite to that by which she had entered,
and thought of the wide contrast which the small room would in another
moment contain, she felt burdened with the sense of her own deep shame,
and shrunk as though she could scarcely bear the presence of her with
whom she had sought this interview.

But struggling with these better feelings was pride,—the vice of
the lowest and most debased creatures no less than of the high and
self-assured. The miserable companion of thieves and ruffians, the
fallen outcast of low haunts, the associate of the scourings of the
jails and hulks, living within the shadow of the gallows itself,—even
this degraded being felt too proud to betray one feeble gleam of
the womanly feeling which she thought a weakness, but which alone
connected her with that humanity, of which her wasting life had
obliterated all outward traces when a very child.

She raised her eyes sufficiently to observe that the figure which
presented itself was that of a slight and beautiful girl, and then
bending them on the ground, tossed her head with affected carelessness
as she said,

“It’s a hard matter to get to see you, lady. If I had taken offence,
and gone away, as many would have done, you’d have been sorry for it
one day, and not without reason, either.”

“I am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you,” replied Rose.
“Do not think of it; but tell me why you wished to see me. I am the
person you inquired for.”

The kind tone of this answer, the sweet voice, the gentle manner, the
absence of any accent of haughtiness or displeasure, took the girl
completely by surprise, and she burst into tears.

“Oh, lady, lady!” she said, clasping her hands passionately before
her face, “if there was more like you, there would be fewer like
me,—there would—there would!”

“Sit down,” said Rose earnestly; “you distress me. If you are in
poverty or affliction I shall be truly happy to relieve you if I
can,—I shall indeed. Sit down.”

“Let me stand, lady,” said the girl, still weeping, “and do not
speak to me so kindly till you know me better. It is growing late.
Is—is—that door shut?”

“Yes,” said Rose, recoiling a few steps, as if to be nearer assistance
in case she should require it. “Why?”

“Because,” said the girl, “I am about to put my life and the lives of
others in your hands. I am the girl that dragged little Oliver back
to old Fagin’s, the Jew’s, on the night he went out from the house in
Pentonville.”

“You!” said Rose Maylie.

“I, lady,” replied the girl. “I am the infamous creature you have heard
of, that lives among the thieves, and that never from the first moment
I can recollect my eyes and senses opening on London streets have known
any better life, or kinder words than they have given me, so help me
God! Do not mind shrinking openly from me, lady. I am younger than you
would think, to look at me, but I am well used to it; the poorest women
fall back as I make my way along the crowded pavement.”

“What dreadful things are these!” said Rose, involuntarily falling from
her strange companion.

“Thank Heaven upon your knees, dear lady,” cried the girl, “that you
had friends to care for and keep you in your childhood, and that you
were never in the midst of cold and hunger, and riot and drunkenness,
and—and something worse than all—as I have been from my cradle; I may
use the word, for the alley and the gutter were mine, as they will be
my deathbed.”

“I pity you!” said Rose in a broken voice. “It wrings my heart to hear
you!”

“God bless you for your goodness!” rejoined the girl. “If you knew what
I am sometimes you would pity me, indeed. But I have stolen away from
those who would surely murder me if they knew I had been here to tell
you what I have overheard. Do you know a man named Monks?”

“No,” said Rose.

“He knows you,” replied the girl; “and knew you were here, for it was
by hearing him tell the place that I found you out.”

“I never heard the name,” said Rose.

“Then he goes by some other amongst us,” rejoined the girl, “which I
more than thought before. Some time ago, and soon after Oliver was
put into your house on the night of the robbery, I—suspecting this
man—listened to a conversation held between him and Fagin in the dark.
I found out from what I heard that Monks—the man I asked you about,
you know—”

“Yes,” said Rose, “I understand.”

“—That Monks,” pursued the girl, “had seen him accidentally with two
of our boys on the day we first lost him, and had known him directly
to be the same child that he was watching for, though I couldn’t make
out why. A bargain was struck with Fagin, that if Oliver was got back
he should have a certain sum; and he was to have more for making him a
thief, which this Monks wanted for some purpose of his own.”

“For what purpose?” asked Rose.

“He caught sight of my shadow on the wall as I listened in the hope of
finding out,” said the girl; “and there are not many people besides me
that could have got out of their way in time to escape discovery. But I
did; and I saw him no more till last night.”

“And what occurred then?”

“I’ll tell you, lady. Last night he came again. Again they went up
stairs, and I, wrapping myself up so that my shadow should not betray
me, again listened at the door. The first words I heard Monks say were
these: ‘So the only proofs of the boy’s identity lie at the bottom
of the river, and the old hag that received them from the mother is
rotting in her coffin.’ They laughed, and talked of his success in
doing this; and Monks, talking on about the boy, and getting very wild,
said, that though he had got the young devil’s money safely now, he’d
rather have had it the other way; for, what a game it would have been
to have brought down the boast of the father’s will, by driving him
through every jail in town, and then hauling him up for some capital
felony, which Fagin could easily manage, after having made a good
profit of him besides.”

“What is all this!” said Rose.

“The truth, lady, though it comes from my lips,” replied the girl.
“Then he said with oaths common enough in my ears, but strangers to
yours, that if he could gratify his hatred by taking the boy’s life
without bringing his own neck in danger, he would; but, as he couldn’t,
he’d be upon the watch to meet him at every turn in life and if he took
advantage of his birth and history, he might harm him yet. ‘In short,
Fagin,’ he says, ‘Jew as you are, you never laid such snares as I’ll
contrive for my young brother, Oliver.’”

“His brother!” exclaimed Rose, clasping her hands.

“Those were his words,” said Nancy, glancing uneasily round, as she had
scarcely ceased to do, since she began to speak, for a vision of Sikes
haunted her perpetually. “And more. When he spoke of you and the other
lady, and said it seemed contrived by Heaven, or the devil, against
him, that Oliver should come into your hands, he laughed, and said
there was some comfort in that too, for how many thousands and hundreds
of thousands of pounds would you not give, if you had them, to know who
your two-legged spaniel was.”

“You do not mean,” said Rose, turning very pale, “to tell me that this
was said in earnest.”

“He spoke in hard and angry earnest, if a man ever did,” replied the
girl, shaking her head. “He is an earnest man when his hatred is up.
I know many who do worse things; but I’d rather listen to them all a
dozen times than to that Monks once. It is growing late, and I have to
reach home without suspicion of having been on such an errand as this.
I must get back quickly.”

“But what can I do?” said Rose. “To what use can I turn this
communication without you? Back! Why do you wish to return to
companions you paint in such terrible colours. If you repeat this
information to a gentleman whom I can summon in one instant from the
next room, you can be consigned to some place of safety without half an
hour’s delay.”

“I wish to go back,” said the girl. “I must go back, because—how can I
tell such things to an innocent lady like you?—because among the men I
have told you of, there is one the most desperate among them all that I
can’t leave; no—not even to be saved from the life I am leading now.”

“Your having interfered in this dear boy’s behalf before,” said Rose;
“your coming here at so great a risk to tell me what you have heard;
your manner, which convinces me of the truth of what you say; your
evident contrition, and sense of shame, all lead me to believe that you
might be yet reclaimed. Oh!” said the earnest girl, folding her hands
as the tears coursed down her face, “do not turn a deaf ear to the
entreaties of one of your own sex; the first—the first, I do believe,
who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion. Do hear
my words, and let me save you yet for better things.”

“Lady,” cried the girl, sinking on her knees, “dear, sweet, angel lady,
you _are_ the first that ever blessed me with such words as these, and
if I had heard them years ago, they might have turned me from a life of
sin and sorrow; but it is too late—it is too late!”

“It is never too late,” said Rose, “for penitence and atonement.”

“It is,” cried the girl, writhing in the agony of her mind; “I cannot
leave him now—I could not be his death.”

“Why should you be?” asked Rose.

“Nothing could save him,” cried the girl. “If I told others what I have
told you, and led to their being taken, he would be sure to die. He is
the boldest, and has been so cruel!”

“Is it possible,” cried Rose, “that for such a man as this you can
resign every future hope, and the certainty of immediate rescue? It is
madness.”

“I don’t know what it is,” answered the girl; “I only know that it
is so, and not with me alone, but with hundreds of others as bad and
wretched as myself. I must go back. Whether it is God’s wrath for the
wrong I have done, I do not know; but I am drawn back to him through
every suffering and ill usage, and should be, I believe, if I knew that
I was to die by his hand at last.”

“What am I to do?” said Rose. “I should not let you depart from me
thus.”

“You should, lady, and I know you will,” rejoined the girl, rising.
“You will not stop my going because I have trusted in your goodness,
and forced no promise from you, as I might have done.”

“Of what use, then, is the communication you have made?” said Rose.
“This mystery must be investigated, or how will its disclosure to me
benefit Oliver, whom you are anxious to serve?”

“You must have some kind gentleman about you that will hear it as a
secret, and advise you what to do,” rejoined the girl.

“But where can I find you again when it is necessary?” asked Rose. “I
do not seek to know where these dreadful people live, but where will
you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time?”

“Will you promise me that you will have my secret strictly kept, and
come alone, or with the only other person that knows it, and that I
shall not be watched or followed?” asked the girl.

“I promise you solemnly,” answered Rose.

“Every Sunday night, from eleven until the clock strikes twelve,” said
the girl without hesitation, “I will walk on London Bridge if I am
alive.”

“Stay another moment,” interposed Rose, as the girl moved hurriedly
towards the door. “Think once again on your own condition, and the
opportunity you have of escaping from it. You have a claim on me: not
only as the voluntary bearer of this intelligence, but as a woman
lost almost beyond redemption, Will you return to this gang of robbers
and to this man, when a word can save you? What fascination is it that
can take you back, and make you cling to wickedness and misery? Oh! is
there no chord in your heart that I can touch—is there nothing left to
which I can appeal against this terrible infatuation?”

“When ladies as young, and good, and beautiful as you are,” replied
the girl steadily, “give away your hearts, love will carry you all
lengths—even such as you who have home, friends, other admirers, every
thing to fill them. When such as me, who have no certain roof but
the coffin-lid, and no friend in sickness or death but the hospital
nurse, set our rotten hearts on any man, and let him fill the place
that parents, home, and friends filled once, or that has been a blank
through all our wretched lives, who can hope to cure us? Pity us,
lady—pity us for having only one feeling of the woman left, and for
having that turned by a heavy judgment from a comfort and a pride into
a new means of violence and suffering.”

“You will,” said Rose, after a pause, “take some money from me, which
may enable you to live without dishonesty—at all events until we meet
again?”

“Not a penny,” replied the girl, waving her hand.

“Do not close your heart against all my efforts to help you,” said
Rose, stepping gently forward. “I wish to serve you indeed.”

“You would serve me best, lady,” replied the girl, wringing her hands,
“if you could take my life at once; for I have felt more grief to think
of what I am to-night than I ever did before, and it would be something
not to die in the same hell in which I have lived. God bless you, sweet
lady, and send as much happiness on your head as I have brought shame
on mine!”

Thus speaking, and sobbing aloud, the unhappy creature turned away;
while Rose Maylie, overpowered by this extraordinary interview, which
bore more the semblance of a rapid dream than an actual occurrence,
sank into a chair, and endeavoured to collect her wandering thoughts.




CHAPTER XL.

CONTAINING FRESH DISCOVERIES, AND SHOWING THAT SURPRISES, LIKE
MISFORTUNES, SELDOM COME ALONE.


HER situation was indeed one of no common trial and difficulty, for
while she felt the most eager and burning desire to penetrate the
mystery in which Oliver’s history was enveloped, she could not but
hold sacred the confidence which the miserable woman with whom she had
just conversed had reposed in her, as a young and guileless girl. Her
words and manner had touched Rose Maylie’s heart, and mingled with her
love for her young charge, and scarcely less intense in its truth and
fervour, was her fond wish to win the outcast back to repentance and
hope.

They only proposed remaining in London three days, prior to departing
for some weeks to a distant part of the coast. It was now midnight of
the first day. What course of action could she determine upon which
could be adopted in eight-and-forty hours? or how could she postpone
the journey without exciting suspicion?

Mr. Losberne was with them, and would be for the next two days;
but Rose was too well acquainted with the excellent gentleman’s
impetuosity, and foresaw too clearly the wrath with which, in the
first explosion of his indignation, he would regard the instrument
of Oliver’s recapture, to trust him with the secret, when her
representations in the girl’s behalf could be seconded by no
experienced person. These were all reasons for the greatest caution and
most circumspect behaviour in communicating it to Mrs. Maylie, whose
first impulse would infallibly be to hold a conference with the worthy
doctor on the subject. As to resorting to any legal adviser, even if
she had known how to do so, it was scarcely to be thought of, for the
same reasons. Once the thought occurred to her of seeking assistance
from Harry; but this awakened the recollection of their last parting,
and it seemed unworthy of her to call him back, when—the tears rose to
her eyes as she pursued this train of reflection—he might have by this
time learnt to forget her, and to be happier away.

Disturbed by these different reflections—inclining now to one course
and then to another, and again recoiling from all as each successive
consideration presented itself to her mind, Rose passed a sleepless and
anxious night, and, after more communing with herself next day, arrived
at the desperate conclusion of consulting Harry Maylie.

“If it be painful to him,” she thought, “to come back here, how painful
will it be to me! But perhaps he will not come; he may write, or he may
come himself, and studiously abstain from meeting me—he did when he
went away. I hardly thought he would; but it was better for us both—a
great deal better.” And here Rose dropped the pen and turned away, as
though the very paper which was to be her messenger should not see her
weep.

She had taken up the same pen and laid it down again fifty times, and
had considered and re-considered the very first line of her letter
without writing the first word, when Oliver, who had been walking in
the streets with Mr. Giles for a body-guard, entered the room in such
breathless haste and violent agitation, as seemed to betoken some new
cause of alarm.

“What makes you look so flurried?” asked Rose, advancing to meet him.
“Speak to me, Oliver.”

“I hardly know how; I feel as if I should be choked,” replied the boy.
“Oh dear! to think that I should see him at last, and you should be
able to know that I have told you all the truth!”

“I never thought you had told us any thing but the truth, dear,” said
Rose, soothing him. “But what is this?—of whom do you speak?”

“I have seen the gentleman,” replied Oliver, scarcely able to
articulate, “the gentleman who was so good to me—Mr. Brownlow, that we
have so often talked about.”

“Where?” asked Rose.

“Getting out of a coach,” replied Oliver, shedding tears of delight,
“and going into a house. I didn’t speak to him—I couldn’t speak to
him, for he didn’t see me, and I trembled so, that I was not able to go
up to him. But Giles asked for me whether he lived there, and they said
he did. Look here,” said Oliver, opening a scrap of paper, “here it is;
here’s where he lives—I’m going there directly. Oh, dear me, dear me!
what shall I do when I come to see him and hear him speak again!”

With her attention not a little distracted by these and a great many
other incoherent exclamations of joy, Rose read the address, which was
Craven-street, in the Strand, and very soon determined upon turning the
discovery to account.

“Quick!” she said, “tell them to fetch a hackney-coach, and be ready to
go with me. I will take you there directly, without a minute’s loss of
time. I will only tell my aunt that we are going out for an hour, and
be ready as soon as you are.”

Oliver needed no prompting to despatch, and in little more than five
minutes they were on their way to Craven-street. When they arrived
there, Rose left Oliver in the coach under pretence of preparing the
old gentleman to receive him, and sending up her card by the servant,
requested to see Mr. Brownlow on very pressing business. The servant
soon returned to beg that she would walk up stairs, and, following him
into an upper room, Miss Maylie was presented to an elderly gentleman
of benevolent appearance, in a bottle-green coat; at no great distance
from whom was seated another old gentleman, in nankeen breeches and
gaiters, who did not look particularly benevolent, and who was sitting
with his hands clasped on the top of a thick stick, and his chin
propped thereupon.

“Dear me,” said the gentleman, in the bottle-green coat, hastily rising
with great politeness, “I beg your pardon, young lady—I imagined it
was some importunate person who—I beg you will excuse me. Be seated,
pray.”

“Mr. Brownlow, I believe, sir?” said Rose, glancing from the other
gentleman to the one who had spoken.

“That is my name,” said the old gentleman. “This is my friend, Mr.
Grimwig. Grimwig, will you leave us for a few minutes?”

“I believe,” interposed Miss Maylie, “that at this period of our
interview I need not give that gentleman the trouble of going away. If
I am correctly informed, he is cognizant of the business on which I
wish to speak to you.”

Mr. Brownlow inclined his head, and Mr. Grimwig, who had made one very
stiff bow, and risen from his chair, made another very stiff bow, and
dropped into it again.

“I shall surprise you very much, I have no doubt,” said Rose, naturally
embarrassed; “but you once showed great benevolence and goodness to a
very dear young friend of mine, and I am sure you will take an interest
in hearing of him again.”

“Indeed!” said Mr. Brownlow. “May I ask his name?”

“Oliver Twist you knew him as,” replied Rose.

The words no sooner escaped her lips than Mr. Grimwig, who had been
affecting to dip into a large book that lay on the table, upset it
with a great crash, and falling back in his chair, discharged from
his features every expression but one of the most unmitigated wonder,
and indulged in a prolonged and vacant stare; then, as if ashamed of
having betrayed so much emotion, he jerked himself, as it were, by a
convulsion into his former attitude, and looking out straight before
him emitted a long, deep whistle, which seemed at last not to be
discharged on empty air, but to die away in the inmost recesses of his
stomach.

Mr. Brownlow was no less surprised, although his astonishment was not
expressed in the same eccentric manner. He drew his chair nearer to
Miss Maylie’s, and said,

“Do me the favour, my dear young lady, to leave entirely out of the
question that goodness and benevolence of which you speak, and of which
nobody else knows any thing, and if you have it in your power to
produce any evidence which will alter the unfavourable opinion I was
once induced to entertain of that poor child, in Heaven’s name put me
in possession of it.”

“A bad one—I’ll eat my head if he is not a bad one,” growled Mr.
Grimwig, speaking by some ventriloquial power, without moving a muscle
of his face.

“He is a child of a noble nature and a warm heart,” said Rose,
colouring; “and that Power which has thought fit to try him beyond his
years has planted in his breast affections and feelings which would do
honour to many who have numbered his days six times over.”

“I’m only sixty-one,” said Mr. Grimwig, with the same rigid face, “and,
as the devil’s in it if this Oliver is not twelve at least, I don’t see
the application of that remark.”

“Do not heed my friend, Miss Maylie,” said Mr. Brownlow; “he does not
mean what he says.”

“Yes, he does,” growled Mr. Grimwig.

“No, he does not,” said Mr. Brownlow, obviously rising in wrath as he
spoke.

“He’ll eat his head, if he doesn’t,” growled Mr. Grimwig.

“He would deserve to have it knocked off, if he does,” said Mr.
Brownlow.

“And he’d uncommonly like to see any man offer to do it,” responded Mr.
Grimwig, knocking his stick upon the floor.

Having gone thus far, the two old gentlemen severally took snuff, and
afterwards shook hands, according to their invariable custom.

“Now, Miss Maylie,” said Mr. Brownlow, “to return to the subject in
which your humanity is so much interested. Will you let me know what
intelligence you have of this poor child: allowing me to premise that
I exhausted every means in my power of discovering him, and that since
I have been absent from this country, my first impression that he had
imposed upon me, and been persuaded by his former associates to rob me,
has been considerably shaken.”

Rose, who had had time to collect her thoughts, at once related in
a few natural words all that had befallen Oliver since he left Mr.
Brownlow’s house, reserving Nancy’s information for that gentleman’s
private ear, and concluding with the assurance that his only sorrow for
some months past had been the not being able to meet with his former
benefactor and friend.

“Thank God!” said the old gentleman “this is great happiness to me,
great happiness. But you have not told me where he is now, Miss Maylie.
You must pardon my finding fault with you,—but why not have brought
him?”

“He is waiting in a coach at the door,” replied Rose.

“At this door!” cried the old gentleman. With which he hurried out of
the room, down the stairs, up the coach-steps, and into the coach,
without another word.

When the room-door closed behind him, Mr. Grimwig lifted up his head,
and converting one of the hind legs of his chair into a pivot described
three distinct circles with the assistance of his stick and the table:
sitting in it all the time. After performing this evolution, he rose
and limped as fast as he could up and down the room at least a dozen
times, and then stopping suddenly before Rose, kissed her without the
slightest preface.

“Hush!” he said, as the young lady rose in some alarm at this unusual
proceeding, “don’t be afraid; I’m old enough to be your grandfather.
You’re a sweet girl—I like you. Here they are.”

In fact, as he threw himself at one dexterous dive into his former
seat, Mr. Brownlow returned accompanied by Oliver, whom Mr. Grimwig
received very graciously; and if the gratification of that moment had
been the only reward for all her anxiety and care in Oliver’s behalf,
Rose Maylie would have been well repaid.

“There is somebody else who should not be forgotten, by the by,” said
Mr. Brownlow, ringing the bell. “Send Mrs. Bedwin here, if you please.”

The old housekeeper answered the summons with all despatch, and
dropping a curtsey at the door, waited for orders.

“Why, you get blinder every day, Bedwin,” said Mr. Brownlow, rather
testily.

“Well, that I do, sir,” replied the old lady. “People’s eyes, at my
time of life, don’t improve with age, sir.”

“I could have told you that,” rejoined Mr. Brownlow; “but put on your
glasses, and see if you can’t find out what you were wanted for, will
you?”

The old lady began to rummage in her pocket for her spectacles; but
Oliver’s patience was not proof against this new trial, and yielding to
his first impulse, he sprung into her arms.

“God be good to me!” cried the old lady, embracing him; “it is my
innocent boy!”

“My dear old nurse!” cried Oliver.

“He would come back—I knew he would,” said the old lady, holding him
in her arms. “How well he looks, and how like a gentleman’s son he is
dressed again! Where have you been this long, long while? Ah! the same
sweet face, but not so pale; the same soft eye, but not so sad. I have
never forgotten them or his quiet smile, but seen them every day side
by side with those of my own dear children, dead and gone since I was a
young lightsome creature.” Running on thus, and now holding Oliver from
her to mark how he had grown, now clasping him to her and passing her
fingers fondly through his hair, the poor soul laughed and wept upon
his neck by turns.

Leaving her and Oliver to compare notes at leisure, Mr. Brownlow led
the way into another room, and there heard from Rose a full narration
of her interview with Nancy, which occasioned him no little surprise
and perplexity. Rose also explained her reasons for not making a
confident of her friend Mr. Losberne in the first instance; the
old gentleman considered that she had acted prudently, and readily
undertook to hold solemn conference with the worthy doctor himself. To
afford him an early opportunity for the execution of this design, it
was arranged that he should call at the hotel at eight o’clock that
evening, and that in the mean time Mrs. Maylie should be cautiously
informed of all that had occurred. These preliminaries adjusted, Rose
and Oliver returned home.

Rose had by no means overrated the measure of the good doctor’s wrath,
for Nancy’s history was no sooner unfolded to him than he poured
forth a shower of mingled threats and execrations; threatened to make
her the first victim of the combined ingenuity of Messrs. Blathers
and Duff, and actually put on his hat preparatory to sallying forth
immediately to obtain the assistance of those worthies. And doubtless
he would, in this first outbreak, have carried the intention into
effect without a moment’s consideration of the consequences if he had
not been restrained, in part, by corresponding violence on the side of
Mr. Brownlow, who was himself of an irascible temperament, and partly
by such arguments and representations as seemed best calculated to
dissuade him from his hotbrained purpose.

“Then what the devil is to be done?” said the impetuous doctor, when
they had rejoined the two ladies. “Are we to pass a vote of thanks to
all these vagabonds, male and female, and beg them to accept a hundred
pounds or so apiece as a trifling mark of our esteem, and some slight
acknowledgment of their kindness to Oliver?”

“Not exactly that,” rejoined Mr. Brownlow laughing; “but we must
proceed gently and with great care.”

“Gentleness and care!” exclaimed the doctor. “I’d send them one and all
to——”

“Never mind where,” interposed Mr. Brownlow. “But reflect whether
sending them any where is likely to attain the object we have in view.”

“What object?” asked the doctor.

“Simply the discovery of Oliver’s parentage, and regaining for him the
inheritance of which, if this story be true, he has been fraudulently
deprived.”

“Ah!” said Mr. Losberne, cooling himself with his pocket-handkerchief;
“I almost forgot that.”

“You see,” pursued Mr. Brownlow, “placing this poor girl entirely
out of the question, and supposing it were possible to bring these
scoundrels to justice without compromising her safety, what good should
we bring about?”

“Hanging a few of them at least, in all probability,” suggested the
doctor, “and transporting the rest.”

“Very good,” replied Mr. Brownlow smiling, “but no doubt they will
bring that about themselves in the fulness of time, and if we step in
to forestal them, it seems to me that we shall be performing a very
Quixotic act in direct opposition to our own interest, or at least to
Oliver’s, which is the same thing.”

“How?” inquired the doctor.

“Thus. It is quite clear that we shall have the most extreme difficulty
in getting to the bottom of this mystery, unless we can bring this
man, Monks, upon his knees. That can only be done by stratagem, and by
catching him when he is not surrounded by these people. For, suppose he
were apprehended, we have no proof against him. He is not even (so far
as we know, or as the facts appear to us) concerned with the gang in
any of their robberies. If he were not discharged, it is very unlikely
that he could receive any further punishment than being committed to
prison as a rogue and vagabond, and of course ever afterwards his mouth
is so obstinately closed that he might as well, for our purposes, be
deaf, dumb, blind, and an idiot.”

“Then,” said the doctor impetuously, “I put it to you again, whether
you think it reasonable that this promise to the girl should be
considered binding; a promise made with the best and kindest
intentions, but really—”

“Do not discuss the point, my dear young lady, pray,” said Mr. Brownlow
interrupting Rose as she was about to speak. “The promise shall be
kept. I don’t think it will in the slightest degree interfere with
our proceedings. But before we can resolve upon any precise course of
action, it will be necessary to see the girl, to ascertain from her
whether she will point out this Monks on the understanding that she
is to be dealt with by us, and not by the law; or if she will not or
cannot do that, to procure from her such an account of his haunts and
description of his person as will enable us to identify him. She cannot
be seen until next Sunday night; this is Tuesday. I would suggest that,
in the mean time, we remain perfectly quiet, and keep these matters
secret even from Oliver himself.”

Although Mr. Losberne received with many wry faces a proposal involving
a delay of five whole days, he was fain to admit that no better course
occurred to him just then; and as both Rose and Mrs. Maylie sided very
strongly with Mr. Brownlow, that gentleman’s proposition was carried
unanimously.

“I should like,” he said, “to call in the aid of my friend Grimwig. He
is a strange creature, but a shrewd one, and might prove of material
assistance to us; I should say that he was bred a lawyer, and quitted
the bar in disgust because he had only one brief and a motion of course
in ten years, though whether that is a recommendation or not, you must
determine for yourselves.”

“I have no objection to your calling in your friend if I may call in
mine,” said the doctor.

“We must put it to the vote,” replied Mr. Brownlow, “who may he be?”

“That lady’s son, and this young lady’s—very old friend,” said
the doctor, motioning towards Mrs. Maylie, and concluding with an
expressive glance at her niece.

Rose blushed deeply, but she did not make any audible objection to this
motion (possibly she felt in a hopeless minority), and Harry Maylie and
Mr. Grimwig were accordingly added to the committee.

“We stay in town of course,” said Mrs. Maylie, “while there remains
the slightest prospect of prosecuting this inquiry with a chance of
success. I will spare neither trouble nor expense in behalf of the
object in whom we are all so deeply interested, and I am content to
remain here, if it be for twelve months, so long as you assure me that
any hope remains.”

“Good,” rejoined Mr. Brownlow, “and as I see on the faces about me
a disposition to inquire how it happened that I was not in the way
to corroborate Oliver’s tale, and had so suddenly left the kingdom,
let me stipulate that I shall be asked no questions until such time
as I may deem it expedient to forestal them by telling my own story.
Believe me that I make this request with good reason, for I might
otherwise excite hopes destined never to be realized, and only increase
difficulties and disappointments already quite numerous enough. Come;
supper has been announced, and young Oliver, who is all alone in the
next room, will have begun to think, by this time, that we have wearied
of his company, and entered into some dark conspiracy to thrust him
forth upon the world.”

With these words the old gentleman gave his hand to Mrs. Maylie, and
escorted her into the supper-room. Mr. Losberne followed, leading Rose,
and the council was for the present effectually broken up.




CHAPTER XLI.

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE OF OLIVER’S, EXHIBITING DECIDED MARKS OF GENIUS,
BECOMES A PUBLIC CHARACTER IN THE METROPOLIS.


UPON the very same night when Nancy, having lulled Mr. Sikes to sleep,
hurried on her self-imposed mission to Rose Maylie, there advanced
towards London by the Great North Road two persons, upon whom it is
expedient that this history should bestow some attention.

They were a man and woman, or perhaps they would be better described
as a male and female; for the former was one of those long-limbed,
knock-kneed, shambling, bony figures, to whom it is difficult to assign
any precise age,—looking as they do, when they are yet boys, like
undergrown men, and when they are almost men, like overgrown boys. The
woman was young, but of a robust and hardy make, as she need have been
to bear the weight of the heavy bundle which was strapped to her back.
Her companion was not encumbered with much luggage, as there merely
dangled from a stick which he carried over his shoulder a small parcel
wrapped in a common handkerchief, and apparently light enough. This
circumstance, added to the length of his legs, which were of unusual
extent, enabled him with much ease to keep some half-dozen paces in
advance of his companion, to whom he occasionally turned with an
impatient jerk of the head as if reproaching her tardiness, and urging
her to greater exertion.

Thus they toiled along the dusty road, taking little heed of any object
within sight, save when they stepped aside to allow a wider passage for
the mail-coaches which were whirling out of town, until they passed
through Highgate archway, when the foremost traveller stopped and
called impatiently to his companion,

“Come on, can’t yer? What a lazybones yer are, Charlotte.”

“It’s a heavy load, I can tell you,” said the female, coming up almost
breathless with fatigue.

“Heavy! What are yer talking about?—what are yer made for?” rejoined
the male traveller, changing his own little bundle as he spoke, to the
other shoulder. “Oh, there yer are, resting again! Well, if yer ain’t
enough to tire any body’s patience out, I don’t know what is.”

“Is it much farther?” asked the woman, resting herself on a bank, and
looking up with the perspiration streaming from her face.

“Much farther! Yer as good as there,” said the long-legged tramper
pointing out before him. “Look there—those are the lights of London.”

“They’re a good two mile off at least,” said the woman despondingly.

“Never mind whether they’re two mile off or twenty,” said Noah
Claypole, for he it was; “but get up and come on, or I’ll kick yer;
and so I give yer notice.”

As Noah’s red nose grew redder with anger, and as he crossed the road
while speaking, as if fully prepared to put his threat into execution,
the woman rose without any further remark and trudged onwards by his
side.

“Where do you mean to stop for the night, Noah?” she asked, after they
had walked a few hundred yards.

“How should I know?” replied Noah, whose temper had been considerably
impaired by walking.

“Near, I hope,” said Charlotte.

“No, not near,” replied Mr. Claypole; “there—not near; so don’t think
it.”

“Why not?”

“When I tell yer that I don’t mean to do a thing, that’s enough,
without any why, or because either,” replied Mr. Claypole with dignity.

“Well, you needn’t be so cross,” said his companion.

“A pretty thing it would be, wouldn’t it, to go and stop at the very
first public-house outside the town, so that Sowerberry, if he come up
after us, might poke in his old nose, and have us taken back in a cart
with handcuffs on,” said Mr. Claypole in a jeering tone. “No, I shall
go and lose myself among the narrowest streets I can find, and not stop
till we come to the very out-of-the-wayest house I can set eyes on.
’Cod, yer may thank yer stars I’ve got a head; for if we hadn’t gone at
first the wrong road on purpose, and come back across country, yer’d
have been locked up hard and fast a week ago, my lady, and serve yer
right for being a fool.”

“I know I ain’t as cunning as you are,” replied Charlotte; “but don’t
put all the blame on me, and say _I_ should have been locked up. You
would have been if I had been, any way.”

“Yer took the money from the till, yer know yer did,” said Mr. Claypole.

“I took it for you, Noah, dear,” rejoined Charlotte.

“Did I keep it?” asked Mr. Claypole.

“No; you trusted in me, and let me carry it like a dear, and so you
are,” said the lady, chucking him under the chin, and drawing her arm
through his.

This was indeed the case; but as it was not Mr. Claypole’s habit
to repose a blind and foolish confidence in any body, it should be
observed, in justice to that gentleman, that he had trusted Charlotte
to this extent, in order that, if they were pursued, the money might
be found on her, which would leave him an opportunity of asserting his
utter innocence of any theft, and greatly facilitate his chances of
escape. Of course he entered at this juncture into no explanation of
his motives, and they walked on very lovingly together.

In pursuance of this cautious plan, Mr. Claypole went on without
halting until he arrived at the Angel at Islington, where he wisely
judged, from the crowd of passengers and number of vehicles, that
London began in earnest. Just pausing to observe which appeared the
most crowded streets, and consequently the most to be avoided, he
crossed into Saint John’s Road, and was soon deep in the obscurity of
the intricate and dirty ways which, lying between Gray’s Inn Lane and
Smithfield, render that part of the town one of the lowest and worst
that improvement has left in the midst of London.

Through these streets Noah Claypole walked, dragging Charlotte after
him, now stepping into the kennel to embrace at a glance the whole
external character of some small public-house, and now jogging on again
as some fancied appearance induced him to believe it too public for his
purpose. At length he stopped in front of one more humble in appearance
and more dirty than any he had yet seen; and, having crossed over
and surveyed it from the opposite pavement, graciously announced his
intention of putting up there for the night.

“So give us the bundle,” said Noah, unstrapping it from the woman’s
shoulders, and slinging it over his own; “and don’t yer speak except
when yer spoken to. What’s the name of the house—t-h-r—three what?”

“Cripples,” said Charlotte.

“Three Cripples,” repeated Noah, “and a very good sign too. Now, then,
keep close at my heels, and come along.” With these injunctions, he
pushed the rattling door with his shoulder, and entered the house
followed by his companion.

There was nobody in the bar but a young Jew, who, with his two elbows
on the counter, was reading a dirty newspaper. He stared very hard at
Noah, and Noah stared very hard at him.

If Noah had been attired in his charity-boy’s dress, there might have
been some reason for the Jew’s opening his eyes so wide; but as he had
discarded the coat and badge, and wore a short smock-frock over his
leathers, there seemed no particular reason for his appearance exciting
so much attention in a public-house.

“Is this the Three Cripples?” asked Noah.

“That is the dabe of this house,” replied the Jew.

“A gentleman we met on the road coming up from the country recommended
us here,” said Noah, nudging Charlotte, perhaps to call her attention
to this most ingenious device for attracting respect, and perhaps to
warn her to betray no surprise. “We want to sleep here to-night.”

“I’b dot certaid you cad,” said Barney, who was the attendant sprite;
“but I’ll idquire.”

“Show us the tap, and give us a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer
while yer inquiring, will yer?” said Noah.

Barney complied by ushering them into a small back-room, and setting
the required viands before them; having done which, he informed the
travellers that they could be lodged that night, and left the amiable
couple to their refreshment.

Now, this back-room was immediately behind the bar, and some steps
lower, so that any person connected with the house, undrawing a small
curtain which concealed a single pane of glass fixed in the wall of
the last-named apartment, about five feet from its flooring, could
not only look down upon any guests in the back-room without any great
hazard of being observed (the glass being in a dark angle of the wall,
between which and a large upright beam the observer had to thrust
himself), but could, by applying his ear to the partition, ascertain
with tolerable distinctness their subject of conversation. The landlord
of the house had not withdrawn his eye from this place of espial
for five minutes, and Barney had only just returned from making the
communication above related, when Fagin, in the course of his evening’s
business came into the bar to inquire after some of his young pupils.

“Hush!” said Barney: “stradegers id the next roob.”

“Strangers!” repeated the old man in a whisper.

“Ah! ad rub uds too,” added Barney. “Frob the cuttry, but subthig in
your way, or I’b bistaked.”

Fagin appeared to receive this communication with great interest, and,
mounting on a stool, cautiously applied his eye to the pane of glass,
from which secret post he could see Mr. Claypole taking cold beef from
the dish and porter from the pot, and administering homœopathic doses
of both to Charlotte, who sat patiently by, eating and drinking at his
pleasure.

“Aha!” whispered the Jew, looking round to Barney, “I like the fellow’s
looks. He’d be of use to us; he knows how to train the girl already.
Don’t make as much noise as a mouse, my dear, and let me hear ’em
talk—let me hear ’em.”

The Jew again applied his eye to the glass, and turning his ear to the
partition, listened attentively, with a subtle and eager look upon his
face that might have appertained to some old goblin.

“So I mean to be a gentleman,” said Mr. Claypole, kicking out his legs,
and continuing a conversation, the commencement of which Fagin had
arrived too late to hear. “No more jolly old coffins, Charlotte, but a
gentleman’s life for me; and, if yer like, yer shall be a lady.”

“I should like that well enough, dear,” replied Charlotte; “but tills
ain’t to be emptied every day, and people to get clear off after it.”

“Tills be blowed!” said Mr. Claypole; “there’s more things besides
tills to be emptied.”

“What do you mean?” asked his companion.

“Pockets, women’s ridicules, houses, mail-coaches, banks,” said Mr.
Claypole, rising with the porter.

“But you can’t do all that, dear,” said Charlotte.

“I shall look out to get into company with them as can,” replied Noah.
“They’ll be able to make us useful some way or another. Why, you
yourself are worth fifty women; I never see such a precious sly and
deceitful creetur as yer can be when I let yer.”

“Lor, how nice it is to hear you say so!” exclaimed Charlotte,
imprinting a kiss upon his ugly face.

“There, that’ll do: don’t yer be too affectionate, in case I’m cross
with yer,” said Noah, disengaging himself with great gravity. “I should
like to be the captain of some band, and have the whopping of ’em, and
follering ’em about, unbeknown to themselves. That would suit me, if
there was good profit; and if we could only get in with some gentlemen
of this sort, I say it would be cheap at that twenty-pound note you’ve
got,—especially as we don’t very well know how to get rid of it
ourselves.”

After expressing this opinion, Mr. Claypole looked into the porter-pot
with an aspect of deep wisdom, and having well shaken its contents,
nodded condescendingly to Charlotte, and took a draught, wherewith he
appeared greatly refreshed. He was meditating another, when the sudden
opening of the door and appearance of a stranger interrupted him.

The stranger was Mr. Fagin, and very amiable he looked, and a very low
bow he made as he advanced, and, setting himself down at the nearest
table, ordered something to drink of the grinning Barney.

[Illustration: _The Jew & Morris Bolter begin to understand each
other._]

“A pleasant night, sir, but cool for the time of year,” said Fagin,
rubbing his hands. “From the country, I see, sir?”

“How do yer see that?” asked Noah Claypole.

“We have not so much dust as that in London,” replied the Jew, pointing
from Noah’s shoes to those of his companion, and from them to the two
bundles.

“Yer a sharp feller,” said Noah. “Ha! ha! only hear that, Charlotte!”

“Why, one need be sharp in this town, my dear,” replied the Jew,
sinking his voice to a confidential whisper, “and that’s the truth.”

The Jew followed up this remark by striking the side of his nose with
his right forefinger,—a gesture which Noah attempted to imitate,
though not with complete success, in consequence of his own nose not
being large enough for the purpose. However, Mr. Fagin seemed to
interpret the endeavour as expressing a perfect coincidence with his
opinion, and put about the liquor which Barney reappeared with, in a
very friendly manner.

“Good stuff that,” observed Mr. Claypole, smacking his lips.

“Dear,” said Fagin. “A man need be always emptying a till, or a pocket,
or a woman’s reticule, or a house, or a mail-coach, or a bank, if he
drinks it regularly.”

Mr. Claypole no sooner heard this extract from his own remarks than he
fell back in his chair, and looked from the Jew to Charlotte with a
countenance of ashy paleness and excessive terror.

“Don’t mind me, my dear,” said Fagin, drawing his chair closer. “Ha!
ha! it was lucky it was only me that heard you by chance. It was very
lucky it was only me.”

“I didn’t take it,” stammered Noah, no longer stretching out his legs
like an independent gentleman, but coiling them up as well as he could
under his chair; “it was all her doing: yer’ve got it now, Charlotte,
yer know yer have.”

“No matter who’s got it, or who did it, my dear!” replied Fagin,
glancing, nevertheless, with a hawk’s eye at the girl and the two
bundles. “I’m in that way myself, and I like you for it.”

“In what way?” asked Mr. Claypole, a little recovering.

“In that way of business,” rejoined Fagin, “and so are the people of
the house. You’ve hit the right nail upon the head, and are as safe
here as you could be. There is not a safer place in all this town than
is the Cripples; that is, when I like to make it so, and I’ve taken a
fancy to you and the young woman; so I’ve said the word, and you may
make your minds easy.”

Noah Claypole’s mind might have been at ease after this assurance, but
his body certainly was not, for he shuffled and writhed about into
various uncouth positions, eyeing his new friend meanwhile with mingled
fear and suspicion.

“I’ll tell you more,” said the Jew, after he had reassured the girl, by
dint of friendly nods and muttered encouragements. “I have got a friend
that I think can gratify your darling wish and put you in the right
way, where you can take whatever department of the business you think
will suit you best at first, and be taught all the others.”

“Yer speak as if yer were in earnest,” replied Noah.

“What advantage would it be to me to be anything else?” inquired the
Jew, shrugging his shoulders. “Here. Let me have a word with you
outside.”

“There’s no occasion to trouble ourselves to move,” said Noah, getting
his legs by gradual degrees abroad again. “She’ll take the luggage up
stairs the while. Charlotte, see to them bundles.”

This mandate, which had been delivered with great majesty, was obeyed
without the slightest demur, and Charlotte made the best of her way off
with the packages while Noah held the door open, and watched her out.

“She’s kept tolerably well under, ain’t she, sir?” he asked as he
resumed his seat, in the tone of a keeper who has tamed some wild
animal.

“Quite perfect,” rejoined Fagin, clapping him on the shoulder. “You’re
a genius, my dear.”

“Why, I suppose if I wasn’t I shouldn’t be here,” replied Noah. “But, I
say, she’ll be back if yer lose time.”

“Now, what do you think?” said the Jew. “If you was to like my friend,
could you do better than join him?”

“Is he in a good way of business, that’s where it is?” responded Noah,
winking one of his little eyes.

“The top of the tree,” said the Jew, “employs a power of hands; and has
the very best society in the profession.”

“Regular town-maders?” asked Mr. Claypole.

“Not a countryman among’em; and I don’t think he’d take you even on my
recommendation if he didn’t run rather short of assistants just now,”
replied the Jew.

“Should I have to hand over?” said Noah, slapping his breeches-pocket.

“It couldn’t possibly be done without,” replied Fagin, in a most
decided manner.

“Twenty pound, though,—it’s a lot of money!”

“Not when it’s in a note you can’t ged rid of,” retorted Fagin. “Number
and date taken, I suppose; payment stopped at the Bank? Ah! It’s not
worth much to him; it’ll have to go abroad, and he couldn’t sell it for
a great deal in the market.”

“When could I see him?” asked Noah doubtfully.

“To-morrow morning,” replied the Jew.

“Where?”

“Here.”

“Um!” said Noah. “What’s the wages?”

“Live like a gentleman,—board and lodging, pipes and spirits
free,—half of all you earn, and half of all the young woman earns,”
replied Mr. Fagin.

Whether Noah Claypole, whose rapacity was none of the least
comprehensive, would have acceded even to these glowing terms had he
been a perfectly free agent is very doubtful; but as he recollected
that, in the event of his refusal it was in the power of his new
acquaintance to give him up to justice immediately (and more unlikely
things had come to pass), he gradually relented, and said he thought
that would suit him.

“But, yer see,” observed Noah, “as she will be able to do a good deal,
I should like to take something very light.”

“A little fancy work?” suggested Fagin.

“Ah! something of that sort,” replied Noah. “What do you think would
suit me now? Something not too trying for the strength, and not very
dangerous, you know; that’s the sort of thing!”

“I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others, my
dear?” said the Jew. “My friend wants somebody who would do that well
very much.”

“Why, I did mention that, and I shouldn’t mind turning my hand to it
sometimes,” rejoined Mr. Claypole slowly; “but it wouldn’t pay by
itself, you know.”

“That’s true!” observed the Jew, ruminating or pretending to ruminate.
“No, it might not.”

“What do you think, then?” asked Noah, anxiously regarding him.
“Something in the sneaking way, where it was pretty sure work, and not
much more risk than being at home.”

“What do you think of the old ladies?” asked the Jew. “There’s a good
deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels, and running
round the corner.”

“Don’t they holler out a good deal, and scratch sometimes?” asked Noah,
shaking his head. “I don’t think that would answer my purpose. Ain’t
there any other line open?”

“Stop,” said the Jew, laying his hand on Noah’s knee. “The kinchin lay.”

“What’s that?” demanded Mr. Claypole.

“The kinchins, my dear,” said the Jew, “is the young children that’s
sent on errands by their mothers, with sixpences and shillings, and
the lay is just to take their money away—they’ve always got it ready
in their hands,—and then knock ’em into the kennel, and walk off very
slow, as if there was nothing else the matter but a child fallen down
and hurt itself. Ha! ha! ha!”

“Ha! ha!” roared Mr. Claypole, kicking up his legs in an ecstasy.
“Lord, that’s the very thing!”

“To be sure it is,” replied Fagin; “and you can have a few good beats
chalked out in Camden-town, and Battle-bridge, and neighbourhoods like
that, where they’re always going errands, and upset as many kinchins as
you want any hour in the day. Ha! ha! ha!”

With this Fagin poked Mr. Claypole in the side, and they joined in a
burst of laughter both long and loud.

“Well, that’s all right!” said Noah, when he had recovered himself, and
Charlotte had returned. “What time to-morrow shall we say?”

“Will ten do?” asked the Jew, adding, as Mr. Claypole nodded assent,
“What name shall I tell my good friend?”

“Mr. Bolter,” replied Noah, who had prepared himself for such an
emergency. “Mr. Morris Bolter. This is Mrs. Bolter.”

“Mrs. Bolter’s humble servant,” said Fagin, bowing with grotesque
politeness. “I hope I shall know her better very shortly.”

“Do you hear the gentleman, Char-lotte?” thundered Mr. Claypole.

“Yes, Noah, dear!” replied Mrs. Bolter, extending her hand.

“She calls me Noah, as a sort of fond way of talking,” said Mr. Morris
Bolter, late Claypole, turning to the Jew. “You understand?”

“Oh yes, I understand—perfectly,” replied Fagin, telling the truth for
once. “Good night! Good night!”

With many adieus and good wishes Mr. Fagin went his way; and Noah
Claypole, bespeaking his good lady’s attention, proceeded to enlighten
her relative to the arrangement he had made, with all that haughtiness
and air of superiority becoming not only a member of the sterner sex,
but a gentleman who appreciated the dignity of a special appointment on
the kinchin lay in London and its vicinity.




CHAPTER XLII.

WHEREIN IS SHOWN HOW THE ARTFUL DODGER GOT INTO TROUBLE.


“AND so it was you that was your own friend, was it?” asked Mr.
Claypole, otherwise Bolter, when, by virtue of the compact entered into
between them, he had removed next day to the Jew’s house. “’Cod, I
thought as much last night!”

“Every man’s his own friend, my dear,” replied Fagin, with his most
insinuating grin. “He hasn’t as good a one as himself anywhere.”

“Except sometimes,” replied Morris Bolter, assuming the air of a man of
the world. “Some people are nobody’s enemies but their own, yer know.”

“Don’t believe that,” said the Jew. “When a man’s his own enemy, it’s
only because he’s too much his own friend, not because he’s careful for
every body but himself. Pooh! pooh! There ain’t such a thing in nature.”

“There oughtn’t to be, if there is,” replied Mr. Bolter.

“That stands to reason,” said the Jew. “Some conjurers say that number
three is the magic number, and some say number seven. It’s neither, my
friend, neither. It’s number one.”

“Ha! ha!” cried Mr. Bolter. “Number one for ever.”

“In a little community like ours, my dear,” said the Jew, who felt it
necessary to qualify this position, “we have a general number one; that
is, you can’t consider yourself as number one without considering me
too as the same, and all the other young people.”

“Oh, the devil!” exclaimed Mr. Bolter.

“You see,” pursued the Jew, affecting to disregard this interruption,
“we are so mixed up together and identified in our interests that
it must be so. For instance, it’s your object to take care of number
one—meaning yourself.”

“Certainly,” replied Mr. Bolter. “Yer about right there.”

“Well, you can’t take care of yourself, number one, without taking care
of me, number one.”

“Number two, you mean,” said Mr. Bolter, who was largely endowed with
the quality of selfishness.

“No, I don’t!” retorted the Jew. “I’m of the same importance to you as
you are to yourself.”

“I say,” interrupted Mr. Bolter, “yer a very nice man, and I’m very
fond of yer; but we ain’t quite so thick together as all that comes to.”

“Only think,” said the Jew, shrugging his shoulders, and stretching
out his hands, “only consider. You’ve done what’s a very pretty thing,
and what I love you for doing; but what at the same time would put
the cravat round your throat that’s so very easily tied and so very
difficult to unloosen—in plain English, the halter!”

Mr. Bolter put his hand to his neckerchief as if he felt it
inconveniently tight, and murmured an assent, qualified in tone but not
in substance.

“The gallows,” continued Fagin, “the gallows, my dear, is an ugly
finger-post, which points out a very short and sharp turning that has
stopped many a bold fellow’s career on the broad highway. To keep in
the easy road, and keep it at a distance, is object number one with
you.”

“Of course it is,” replied Mr. Bolter. “What do yer talk about such
things for?”

“Only to show you my meaning clearly,” said the Jew, raising his
eyebrows. “To be able to do that, you depend upon me; to keep my little
business all snug, I depend upon you. The first is your number one,
the second my number one. The more you value your number one, the more
careful you must be of mine; so we come at last to what I told you at
first—that a regard for number one holds us all together, and must do
so unless we would all go to pieces in company.”

“That’s true,” rejoined Mr. Bolter, thoughtfully. “Oh! yer a’ cunning
old codger!”

Mr. Fagin saw with delight that this tribute to his powers was no
mere compliment, but that he had really impressed his recruit with
a sense of his wily genius, which it was most important that he
should entertain in the outset of their acquaintance. To strengthen
an impression so desirable and useful, he followed up the blow by
acquainting him in some detail with the magnitude and extent of his
operations; blending truth and fiction together as best served his
purpose, and bringing both to bear with so much art, that Mr. Bolter’s
respect visibly increased, and became tempered, at the same time, with
a degree of wholesome fear, which it was highly desirable to awaken.

“It’s this mutual trust we have in each other that consoles me under
heavy losses,” said the Jew. “My best hand was taken from me yesterday
morning.”

“Yer don’t mean to say he died?” cried Mr. Bolter.

“No, no,” replied Fagin, “not so bad as that. Not quite so bad.”

“What, I suppose he was——”

“Wanted,” interposed the Jew. “Yes, he was wanted.”

“Very particular?” inquired Mr. Bolter.

“No,” replied the Jew, “not very. He was charged with attempting to
pick a pocket, and they found a silver snuff-box on him,—his own, my
dear, his own, for he took snuff himself, and was very fond of it. They
remanded him till to-day, for they thought they knew the owner. Ah! he
was worth fifty boxes and I’d give the price of as many to have him
back. You should have known the Dodger, my dear; you should have known
the Dodger.”

“Well, but I shall know him, I hope; don’t yer think so?” said Mr.
Bolter.

“I’m doubtful about it,” replied the Jew, with a sigh. “If they don’t
get any fresh evidence it’ll only be a summary conviction, and we shall
have him back again after six weeks or so; but, if they do, it’s a
case of lagging. They know what a clever lad he is; he’ll be a lifer:
they’ll make the Artful nothing less than a lifer.”

“What do yer mean by lagging, and a lifer?” demanded Mr. Bolter.
“What’s the good of talking in that way to me? why don’t yer speak so
as I can understand yer?”

Fagin was about to translate these mysterious expressions into
the vulgar tongue, and, being interpreted, Mr. Bolter would have
been informed, that they represented that combination of words,
“transportation for life,” when the dialogue was cut short by the entry
of Master Bates, with his hands in his breeches’ pockets, and his face
twisted into a look of semi-comical woe.

“It’s all up, Fagin,” said Charley; when he and his new companion had
been made known to each other.

“What do you mean?” asked the Jew, with trembling lips.

“They’ve found the gentleman as owns the box; two or three more’s a
coming to ’dentify him, and the Artful’s booked for a passage out,”
replied Master Bates. “I must have a full suit of mourning, Fagin, and
a hatband, to wisit him in, afore he sets out upon his travels. To
think of Jack Dawkins—lummy Jack—the Dodger—the Artful Dodger—going
abroad for a common twopenny-halfpenny sneeze-box! I never thought he’d
ha’ done it under a gold watch, chain, and seals, at the lowest. Oh,
why didn’t he rob some rich old gentleman, of all his walables, and go
out _as_ a gentleman, and not like a common prig, without no honour nor
glory!”

With this expression of feeling for his unfortunate friend, Master
Bates sat himself on the nearest chair, with an aspect of chagrin and
despondency.

“What do you talk about his having neither honour nor glory for?”
exclaimed Fagin, darting an angry look at his pupil. “Wasn’t he always
top-sawyer among you all?—is there one of you that could touch him, or
come near him on any scent—eh?”

“Not one!” replied Master Bates, in a voice rendered husky by
regret—“not one!”

“Then what do you talk of?” replied the Jew, angrily; “what are you
blubbering for?”

“’Cause it isn’t on the rec-ord, is it?” said Charley, chafed into
perfect defiance of his venerable friend by the current of his regrets;
“’cause it can’t come out in the indictment; ’cause nobody will never
know half of what he was. How will he stand in the Newgate Calendar?
P’raps not be there at all. Oh, my eye, my eye, wot a blow it is!”

“Ha! ha!” cried the Jew, extending his right hand, and turning to Mr.
Bolter, in a fit of chuckling which shook him as though he had the
palsy; “see what a pride they take in their profession, my dear. Isn’t
it beautiful?”

Mr. Bolter nodded assent; and the Jew, after contemplating the grief of
Charley Bates for some seconds, with evident satisfaction, stepped up
to that young gentleman, and patted him on the shoulder.

“Never mind, Charley,” said Fagin, soothingly; “it’ll come out, it’ll
be sure to come out. They’ll all know what a clever fellow he was;
he’ll shew it himself, and not disgrace his old pals and teachers.
Think how young he is, too! What a distinction, Charley, to be lagged
at his time of life!”

“Well, it is a honour,—that is!” said Charley, a little consoled.

“He shall have all he wants,” continued the Jew. “He shall be kept in
the Stone Jug, Charley, like a gentleman—like a gentleman, with his
beer every day, and money in his pocket to pitch and toss with, if he
can’t spend it.”

“No, shall he though?” cried Charley Bates.

“Ay, that he shall,” replied the Jew; “and we’ll have a big-wig,
Charley,—one that’s got the greatest gift of the gab,—to carry
on his defence, and he shall make a speech for himself, too, if he
likes, and we’ll read it all in the papers—‘Artful Dodger—shrieks of
laughter—here the court was convulsed’—eh, Charley, eh?”

“Ha! ha!” laughed Master Bates, “what a lark that would be, wouldn’t
it, Fagin? I say, how the Artful would bother ’em, wouldn’t he?”

“Would!” cried the Jew. “He shall—he will!”

“Ah, to be sure, so he will!” repeated Charley, rubbing his hands.

“I think I see him now,” cried the Jew, bending his eyes upon his pupil.

“So do I,” cried Charley Bates—“ha! ha! ha! so do I. I see it all
afore me, upon my soul I do, Fagin. What a game! what a regular game!
All the big-wigs trying to look solemn, and Jack Dawkins addressing of
’em as intimate and comfortable as if he was the judge’s own son making
a speech arter dinner—ha! ha! ha!”

In fact the Jew had so well humoured his young friend’s eccentric
disposition, that Master Bates, who had at first been disposed to
consider the imprisoned Dodger rather in the light of a victim, now
looked upon him as the chief actor in a scene of most uncommon and
exquisite humour, and felt quite impatient for the arrival of the time
when his old companion should have so favourable an opportunity of
displaying his abilities.

“We must know how he gets on to-day by some handy means or other,” said
Fagin. “Let me think.”

“Shall I go?” asked Charley.

“Not for the world,” replied the Jew. “Are you mad, my dear?—stark
mad, that you’d walk into the very place where—No, Charley, no—one is
enough to lose at a time.”

“You don’t mean to go yourself, I suppose?” said Charley with a
humorous leer.

“That wouldn’t quite fit,” replied Fagin, shaking his head.

“Then why don’t you send this new cove?” asked Master Bates, laying his
hand on Noah’s arm; “nobody knows him.”

“Why, if he didn’t mind,” observed the Jew.

“Mind!” interposed Charley. “What should _he_ have to mind?”

“Really nothing, my dear,” said Fagin, turning to Mr. Bolter, “really
nothing.”

“Oh, I dare say about that, yer know,” observed Noah, backing towards
the door, and shaking his head with a kind of sober alarm. “No,
no—none of that. It’s not in my department, that isn’t.”

“Wot department has he got, Fagin?” inquired Master Bates, surveying
Noah’s lank form with much disgust. “The cutting away when there’s
anything wrong, and the eating all the wittles when there’s everything
right; is that his branch?”

“Never mind,” retorted Mr. Bolter; “and don’t yer take liberties with
yer superiors, little boy, or yer’ll find yerself in the wrong shop.”

Master Bates laughed so vehemently at this magnificent threat, that it
was some time before Fagin could interpose and represent to Mr. Bolter
that he incurred no possible danger in visiting the police-office;
that, inasmuch as no account of the little affair in which he had been
engaged, nor any description of his person, had yet been forwarded to
the metropolis, it was very probable that he was not even suspected
of having resorted to it for shelter; and that, if he were properly
disguised, it would be as safe a spot for him to visit as any in
London, inasmuch as it would be of all places the very last to which he
could be supposed likely to resort of his own free will.

Persuaded in part, by these representations, but overborne in a much
greater degree by his fear of the Jew, Mr. Bolter at length consented,
with a very bad grace, to undertake the expedition. By Fagin’s
directions he immediately substituted for his own attire a waggoner’s
frock, velveteen breeches, and leather leggings, all of which articles
the Jew had at hand. He was likewise furnished with a felt hat well
garnished with turnpike tickets, and a carter’s whip. Thus equipped
he was to saunter into the office as some country fellow from Covent
Garden market might be supposed to do for the gratification of his
curiosity; and as he was as awkward, ungainly, and raw-boned a fellow
as need be, Mr. Fagin had no fear but that he would look the part to
perfection.

These arrangements completed, he was informed of the necessary signs
and tokens by which to recognise the Artful Dodger, and was conveyed
by Master Bates through dark and winding ways to within a very short
distance of Bow-street. Having described the precise situation of the
office, and accompanied it with copious directions how he was to walk
straight up the passage, and when he got into the yard take the door up
the steps on the right-hand side, and pull off his hat as he went into
the room, Charley Bates bade him hurry on alone, and promised to bide
his return on the spot of their parting.

Noah Claypole, or Morris Bolter, as the reader pleases, punctually
followed the directions he had received, which—Master Bates being
pretty well acquainted with the locality—were so exact that he was
enabled to gain the magisterial presence without asking any question
or meeting with any interruption by the way. He found himself jostled
among a crowd of people, chiefly women, who were huddled together in
a dirty frowsy room, at the upper end of which was a raised platform
railed off from the rest, with a dock for the prisoners on the left
hand against the wall, a box for the witnesses in the middle, and a
desk for the magistrates on the right; the awful locality last-named
being screened off by a partition which concealed the bench from the
common gaze, and left the vulgar to imagine (if they could) the full
majesty of justice.

There were only a couple of women in the dock, who were nodding to
their admiring friends, while the clerk read some depositions to a
couple of policemen and a man in plain clothes who leant over the
table. A jailer stood reclining against the dock-rail, tapping his nose
listlessly with a large key, except when he repressed an undue tendency
to conversation among the idlers, by proclaiming silence; or looked
sternly up to bid some woman “Take that baby out,” when the gravity of
justice was disturbed by feeble cries, half-smothered in the mother’s
shawl, from some meagre infant. The room smelt close and unwholesome,
the walls were dirt-discoloured, and the ceiling blackened. There was
an old smoky bust over the mantel-shelf, and a dusty clock above the
dock—the only thing present that seemed to go on as it ought; for
depravity, or poverty, or an habitual acquaintance with both, had left
a taint on all the animate matter, hardly less unpleasant than the
thick greasy scum on every inanimate object that frowned upon it.

Noah looked eagerly about him for the Dodger, but although there were
several women who would have done very well for that distinguished
character’s mother or sister, and more than one man who might be
supposed to bear a strong resemblance to his father, nobody at all
answering the description given him of Mr. Dawkins was to be seen. He
waited in a state of much suspense and uncertainty until the women,
being committed for trial, went flaunting out, and then was quickly
relieved by the appearance of another prisoner whom he felt at once
could be no other than the object of his visit.

It was indeed Mr. Dawkins, who, shuffling into the office with the big
coat sleeves tucked up as usual, his left hand in his pocket and his
hat in his right, preceded the jailer with a rolling gait altogether
indescribable, and taking his place in the dock, requested in an
audible voice to know what he was placed in that ’ere disgraceful
sitivation for.

“Hold your tongue, will you?” said the jailer.

“I’m an Englishman, an’t I?” rejoined the Dodger. “Where are my
priwileges?”

“You’ll get your privileges soon enough,” retorted the jailer, “and
pepper with ’em.”

“We’ll see wot the Secretary of State for the Home Affairs has got to
say to the beaks, if I don’t,” replied Mr. Dawkins. “Now then, wot is
this here business? I shall thank the madg’strates to dispose of this
here little affair, and not to keep me while they read the paper, for
I’ve got an appointment with a genelman in the city, and as I’m a man
of my word and wery punctual in business matters, he’ll go away if I
ain’t there to my time, and then pr’aps there won’t be an action for
damage against those as kept me away. Oh no, certainly not!”

At this point the Dodger, with a show of being very particular with
a view to proceedings to be had thereafter, desired the jailer to
communicate “the names of them two old files as was on the bench,”
which so tickled the spectators that they laughed almost as heartily
as Master Bates could have done if he had heard the request.

“Silence there!” cried the jailer.

“What is this?” inquired one of the magistrates.

“A pick-pocketing case, your worship.”

“Has that boy ever been here before?”

“He ought to have been a many times,” replied the jailer. “He has been
pretty well everywhere else. _I_ know him well, your worship.”

“Oh! you know me, do you?” cried the Artful, making a note of the
statement. “Wery good. That’s a case of deformation of character, any
way.”

Here there was another laugh, and another cry of silence.

“Now then, where are the witnesses?” said the clerk.

“Ah! that’s right,” added the Dodger. “Where are they? I should like to
see ’em.”

This wish was immediately gratified, for a policeman stepped forward
who had seen the prisoner attempt the pocket of an unknown gentleman
in a crowd, and indeed take a handkerchief therefrom, which being a
very old one, he deliberately put back again, after trying it on his
own countenance. For this reason he took the Dodger into custody as
soon as he could get near him, and the said Dodger being searched had
upon his person a silver snuff-box with the owner’s name engraved upon
the lid. This gentleman had been discovered on reference to the Court
Guide, and being then and there present, swore that the snuff-box was
his, and that he had missed it on the previous day, the moment he had
disengaged himself from the crowd before referred to. He had also
remarked a young gentleman in the throng particularly active in making
his way about, and that young gentleman was the prisoner before him.

“Have you anything to ask this witness, boy?” said the magistrate.

“I wouldn’t abase myself by descending to hold any conversation with
him,” replied the Dodger.

“Have you anything to say at all?”

“Do you hear his worship ask if you’ve anything to say?” inquired the
jailer nudging the silent Dodger with his elbow.

“I beg your pardon,” said the Dodger, looking up with an air of
abstraction. “Did you address yourself to me, my man?”

“I never see such an out-and-out young wagabond, your worship,”
observed the officer with a grin. “Do you mean to say anything, you
young shaver?”

“No,” replied the Dodger, “not here, for this ain’t the shop for
justice; besides which my attorney is a-breakfasting this morning with
the Wice President of the House of Commons; but I shall have something
to say elsewhere, and so will he, and so will a wery numerous and
respectable circle of acquaintance as’ll make them beaks wish they’d
never been born, or that they’d got their footman to hang ’em up to
their own hat-pegs, ’afore they let ’em come out this morning to try it
upon me. I’ll——”

“There, he’s fully committed!” interposed the clerk. “Take him away.”

“Come on,” said the jailer.

“Oh ah! I’ll come on,” replied the Dodger, brushing his hat with
the palm of his hand. “Ah! (to the Bench) it’s no use your looking
frightened; I won’t show you no mercy, not a ha’porth of it. _You’ll_
pay for this, my fine fellers; I wouldn’t be you for something. I
wouldn’t go free now if you was to fall down on your knees and ask me.
Here, carry me off to prison. Take me away.”

With these last words the Dodger suffered himself to be led off by the
collar, threatening till he got into the yard to make a parliamentary
business of it; and then grinning in the officer’s face with great glee
and self-approval.

Having seen him locked up by himself in a little cell, Noah made the
best of his way back to where he had left Master Bates. After waiting
here some time he was joined by that young gentleman, who had prudently
abstained from showing himself until he had looked carefully abroad
from a snug retreat, and ascertained that his new friend had not been
followed by any impertinent person.

The two hastened back together to bear to Mr. Fagin the animating
news that the Dodger was doing full justice to his bringing-up, and
establishing for himself a glorious reputation.




CHAPTER XLIII.

THE TIME ARRIVES FOR NANCY TO REDEEM HER PLEDGE TO ROSE MAYLIE. SHE
FAILS. NOAH CLAYPOLE IS EMPLOYED BY FAGIN ON A SECRET MISSION.


ADEPT as she was in all the arts of cunning and dissimulation, the
girl Nancy could not wholly conceal the effect which the knowledge of
the step she had taken, worked upon her mind. She remembered that both
the crafty Jew and the brutal Sikes had confided to her schemes which
had been hidden from all others, in the full confidence that she was
trustworthy and beyond the reach of their suspicion; and vile as those
schemes were, desperate as were their originators, and bitter as were
her feelings towards the Jew, who had led her step by step deeper and
deeper down into an abyss of crime and misery, whence was no escape,
still there were times when even towards him she felt some relenting
lest her disclosure should bring him within the iron grasp he had so
long eluded, and he should fall at last—richly as he merited such a
fate—by her hand.

But these were the mere wanderings of a mind unable wholly to detach
itself from old companions and associations, though enabled to fix
itself steadily on one object, and resolved not to be turned aside by
any consideration. Her fears for Sikes would have been more powerful
inducements to recoil while there was yet time; but she had stipulated
that her secret should be rigidly kept—she had dropped no clue which
could lead to his discovery—she had refused, even for his sake, a
refuge from all the guilt and wretchedness that encompassed her—and
what more could she do? She was resolved.

Though every mental struggle terminated in this conclusion, they forced
themselves upon her again and again, and left their traces too. She
grew pale and thin even within a few days. At times she took no heed of
what was passing before her, or no part in conversations where once she
would have been the loudest. At others she laughed without merriment,
and was noisy without cause or meaning. At others—often within a
moment afterwards—she sat silent and dejected, brooding with her head
upon her hands, while the very effort by which she roused herself told
more forcibly than even these indications that she was ill at ease, and
that her thoughts were occupied with matters very different and distant
from those in course of discussion by her companions.

It was Sunday night, and the bell of the nearest church struck the
hour. Sikes and the Jew were talking, but they paused to listen. The
girl looked up from the low seat on which she crouched and listened
too, intently. Eleven.

“An hour this side of midnight,” said Sikes, raising the blind to look
out, and returning to his seat. “Dark and heavy it is too. A good night
for business this.”

“Ah!” replied the Jew. “What a pity, Bill, my dear, that there’s none
quite ready to be done.”

“You’re right for once,” replied Sikes gruffly. “It is a pity, for I’m
in the humour too.”

The Jew sighed, and shook his head despondingly.

“We must make up for lost time when we’ve got things into a good train,
that’s all I know,” said Sikes.

“That’s the way to talk, my dear,” replied the Jew, venturing to pat
him on the shoulder. “It does me good to hear you.”

“Does you good, does it!” cried Sikes. “Well, so be it.”

“Ha! ha! ha!” laughed the Jew, as if he were relieved by even this
concession. “You’re like yourself to-night, Bill—quite like yourself.”

“I don’t feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my
shoulder, so take it away,” said Sikes, casting off the Jew’s hand.

“It makes you nervous, Bill,—reminds you of being nabbed, does it?”
said the Jew, determined not to be offended.

“Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil,” returned Sikes, “not by a
trap. There never was another man with such a face as yours, unless it
was your father, and I suppose _he_ is singeing his grizzled red beard
by this time, unless you came straight from the old ’un without any
father at all betwixt you, which I shouldn’t wonder at a bit.”

Fagin offered no reply to this compliment; but, pulling Sikes by the
sleeve, pointed his finger towards Nancy, who had taken advantage of
the foregoing conversation to put on her bonnet, and was now leaving
the room.

“Hallo!” cried Sikes. “Nance. Where’s the gal going to at this time of
night?”

“Not far.”

“What answer’s that?” returned Sikes. “Where are you going?”

“I say, not far.”

“And I say where?” retorted Sikes in a loud voice. “Do you hear me?”

“I don’t know where,” replied the girl.

“Then I do,” said Sikes, more in the spirit of obstinacy than because
he had any real objection to the girl going where she listed. “Nowhere.
Sit down.”

“I’m not well. I told you that before,” rejoined the girl. “I want a
breath of air.”

“Put your head out of the winder, and take it there,” replied Sikes.

“There’s not enough there,” said the girl. “I want it in the street.”

“Then you won’t have it,” replied Sikes, with which assurance he rose,
locked the door, took the key out, and pulling her bonnet from her
head, flung it up to the top of an old press. “There,” said the robber.
“Now stop quietly where you are, will you.”

“It’s not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me,” said the girl
turning very pale. “What do you mean, Bill? Do you know what you’re
doing?”

“Know what I’m—— Oh!” cried Sikes turning to Fagin, “she’s out of her
senses, you know, or she daren’t talk to me in that way.”

“You’ll drive me on to something desperate,” muttered the girl placing
both hands upon her breast as though to keep down by force some
violent outbreak. “Let me go, will you,—this minute,—this instant—”

“No!” roared Sikes.

“Tell him to let me go, Fagin. He had better. It’ll be better for him.
Do you hear me?” cried Nancy, stamping her foot upon the ground.

“Hear you!” repeated Sikes, turning round in his chair to confront her.
“Ay, and if I hear you for half a minute longer, the dog shall have
such a grip on your throat as’ll tear some of that screaming voice out.
Wot has come over you, you jade—wot is it?”

“Let me go,” said the girl with great earnestness; then sitting
herself down on the floor before the door, she said,—“Bill, let me
go; you don’t know what you’re doing—you don’t indeed. For only one
hour—do—do.”

“Cut my limbs off one by one!” cried Sikes, seizing her roughly by the
arm, “if I don’t think the gal’s stark raving mad. Get up.”

“Not till you let me go—not till you let me go—never—never!”
screamed the girl. Sikes looked on for a minute watching his
opportunity, and suddenly pinioning her hands dragged her, struggling
and wrestling with him by the way, into a small room adjoining, where
he sat himself on a bench, and thrusting her into a chair, held her
down by force. She struggled and implored by turns until twelve o’clock
had struck, and then, wearied and exhausted, ceased to contest the
point any further. With a caution, backed by many oaths, to make
no more efforts to go out that night, Sikes left her to recover at
leisure, and rejoined the Jew.

“Phew!” said the housebreaker, wiping the perspiration from his face.
“Wot a precious strange gal that is!”

“You may say that, Bill,” replied the Jew thoughtfully. “You may say
that.”

“Wot did she take it into her head to go out to-night for, do you
think?” asked Sikes. “Come; you should know her better than me—wot
does it mean?”

“Obstinacy—woman’s obstinacy, I suppose, my dear,” replied the Jew
shrugging his shoulders.

“Well, I suppose it is,” growled Sikes. “I thought I had tamed her, but
she’s as bad as ever.”

“Worse,” said the Jew thoughtfully. “I never knew her like this, for
such a little cause.”

“Nor I,” said Sikes. “I think she’s got a touch of that fever in her
blood yet, and it won’t come out—eh?”

“Like enough,” replied the Jew.

“I’ll let her a little blood without troubling the doctor, if she’s
took that way again,” said Sikes.

The Jew nodded an expressive approval of this mode of treatment.

“She was hanging about me all day and night too when I was stretched on
my back; and you, like a black-hearted wolf as you are, kept yourself
aloof,” said Sikes. “We was very poor too all the time, and I think one
way or other it’s worried and fretted her, and that being shut up here
so long has made her restless—eh?”

“That’s it, my dear,” replied the Jew in a whisper.—“Hush!”

As he uttered these words, the girl herself appeared and resumed her
former seat. Her eyes were swollen and red; she rocked herself to and
fro, tossed her head, and after a little time, burst out laughing.

“Why, now she’s on the other tack!” exclaimed Sikes, turning a look of
excessive surprise upon his companion.

The Jew nodded to him to take no further notice just then, and in a few
minutes the girl subsided into her accustomed demeanour. Whispering
Sikes that there was no fear of her relapsing, Fagin took up his hat
and bade him good-night. He paused when he reached the door, and
looking round, asked if somebody would light him down the dark stairs.

“Light him down,” said Sikes, who was filling his pipe. “It’s a pity he
should break his neck himself, and disappoint the sightseers. There;
show him a light.”

Nancy followed the old man down stairs with the candle. When they
reached the passage he laid his finger on his lip, and drawing close to
the girl, said in a whisper,

“What is it, Nancy, dear?”

“What do you mean?” replied the girl in the same tone.

“The reason of all this,” replied Fagin.

“If _he_”—he pointed with his skinny forefinger up the stairs—“is so
hard with you, (he’s a brute, Nance, a brute-beast) why don’t you——”

“Well!” said the girl, as Fagin paused, with his mouth almost touching
her ear, and his eyes looking into hers.

“No matter just now,” said the Jew; “we’ll talk of this again. You have
a friend in me, Nance; a staunch friend. I have the means at hand,
quiet and close. If you want revenge on those that treat you like a
dog—like a dog! worse than his dog, for he humours him sometimes—come
to me. I say; come to me. He is the mere hound of a day, but you know
me of old, Nance—of old.”

“I know you well,” replied the girl, without manifesting the least
emotion. “Good night.”

She shrunk back as Fagin offered to lay his hand on hers, but said good
night again in a steady voice, and, answering his parting look with a
nod of intelligence, closed the door between them.

Fagin walked towards his own home, intent upon the thoughts that were
working within his brain. He had conceived the idea—not from what had
just passed, though that had tended to confirm him, but slowly and
by degrees—that Nancy, wearied of the housebreaker’s brutality, had
conceived an attachment for some new friend. Her altered manner, her
repeated absences from home alone, her comparative indifference to the
interests of the gang for which she had once been so zealous, and,
added to these, her desperate impatience to leave home that night at a
particular hour, all favoured the supposition, and rendered it, to him
at least, almost a matter of certainty. The object of this new liking
was not among his myrmidons. He would be a valuable acquisition with
such an assistant as Nancy, and must (thus Fagin argued) be secured
without delay.

There was another and a darker object to be gained. Sikes knew too
much, and his ruffian taunts had not galled the Jew the less because
the wounds were hidden. The girl must know well that if she shook him
off, she could never be safe from his fury, and that it would be surely
wreaked—to the maiming of limbs, or perhaps the loss of life—on the
object of her more recent fancy. “With a little persuasion,” thought
Fagin, “what more likely than that she would consent to poison him?
Women have done such things, and worse, to secure the same object
before now. There would be the dangerous villain—the man I hate—gone;
another secured in his place; and my influence over the girl, with the
knowledge of this crime to back it, unlimited.”

These things passed through the mind of Fagin during the short time
he sat alone in the housebreaker’s room; and with them uppermost in
his thoughts, he had taken the opportunity afterwards afforded him
of sounding the girl in the broken hints he threw out at parting.
There was no expression of surprise, no assumption of an inability to
understand his meaning. The girl clearly comprehended it. Her glance at
parting showed _that_.

But perhaps she would recoil from a plot to take the life of Sikes, and
that was one of the chief ends to be attained. “How,” thought the Jew,
as he crept homewards, “can I increase my influence with her? what new
power can I acquire?”

Such brains are fertile in expedients. If, without extracting a
confession from herself, he laid a watch, discovered the object of her
altered regard, and threatened to reveal the whole history to Sikes (of
whom she stood in no common fear) unless she entered into his designs,
could he not secure her compliance?

“I can,” said Fagin almost aloud. “She durst not refuse me then—not
for her life, not for her life! I have it all. The means are ready, and
shall be set to work. I shall have you yet.”

He cast back a dark look and a threatening motion of the hand towards
the spot where he had left the bolder villain, and went on his way,
busying his bony hands in the folds of his tattered garment, which
he wrenched tightly in his grasp as though there were a hated enemy
crushed with every motion of his fingers.

He rose betimes next morning, and waited impatiently for the appearance
of his new associate, who, after a delay which seemed interminable, at
length presented himself, and commenced a voracious assault upon the
breakfast.

“Bolter,” said the Jew, drawing up a chair and seating himself opposite
to him.

“Well, here I am,” returned Noah. “What’s the matter? Don’t yer ask me
to do anything till I have done eating. That’s a great fault in this
place. Yer never get time enough over yer meals.”

“You can talk as you eat, can’t you?” said Fagin, cursing his dear
young friend’s greediness from the very bottom of his heart.

“Oh yes, I can talk; I get on better when I talk,” said Noah, cutting
a monstrous slice of bread. “Where’s Charlotte?”

“Out,” said Fagin. “I sent her out this morning with the other young
woman, because I wanted us to be alone.”

“Oh!” said Noah, “I wish yer’d ordered her to make some buttered toast
first. Well. Talk away. Yer won’t interrupt me.”

There seemed indeed no great fear of anything interrupting him, as
he had evidently sat down with a determination to do a great deal of
business.

“You did well yesterday, my dear,” said the Jew, “beautiful! Six
shillings and ninepence halfpenny on the very first day! The kinchin
lay will be a fortune to you.”

“Don’t yer forget to add three pint-pots and a milk-can,” said Mr.
Bolter.

“No, no, my dear,” replied the Jew. “The pint-pots were great strokes
of genius, but the milk-can was a perfect masterpiece.”

“Pretty well, I think, for a beginner,” remarked Mr. Bolter
complacently. “The pots I took off airy railings, and the milk-can was
standing by itself outside a public-house, so I thought it might get
rusty with the rain, or catch cold, yer know. Ha! ha! ha!”

The Jew affected to laugh very heartily; and Mr. Bolter, having had his
laugh out, took a series of large bites, which finished his first hunk
of bread and butter, and assisted himself to a second.

“I want you, Bolter,” said Fagin, leaning over the table, “to do a
piece of work for me, my dear, that needs great care and caution.”

“I say,” rejoined Bolter, “don’t yer go shoving me into danger, or
sending me to any more police-offices. That don’t suit me, that don’t;
and so I tell yer.”

“There’s not the smallest danger in it—not the very smallest,” said
the Jew; “it’s only to dodge a woman.”

“An old woman?” demanded Mr. Bolter.

“A young one,” replied Fagin.

“I can do that pretty well, I know,” said Bolter. “I was a regular
cunning sneak when I was at school. What am I to dodge her for? not
to—”

“Not to do anything,” interrupted the Jew, “but to tell me where she
goes to, who she sees, and, if possible, what she says; to remember the
street, if it is a street, or the house, if it is a house, and to bring
me back all the information you can.”

“What’ll yer give me?” asked Noah, setting down his cup, and looking
his employer eagerly in the face.

“If you do it well, a pound, my dear—one pound,” said Fagin, wishing
to interest him in the scent as much as possible. “And that’s what
I never gave yet for any job of work where there wasn’t valuable
consideration to be gained.”

“Who is she?” inquired Noah.

“One of us.”

“Oh Lor!” cried Noah, curling up his nose. “Yer doubtful of her, are
yer?”

“She has found out some new friends, my dear, and I must know who they
are,” replied the Jew.

“I see,” said Noah. “Just to have the pleasure of knowing them, if
they’re respectable people, eh?—Ha! ha! ha! I’m your man.”

“I knew you would be,” cried Fagin, elated by the success of his
proposal.

“Of course, of course,” replied Noah. “Where is she? Where am I to wait
for her? When am I to go?”

“All that, my dear, you shall hear from me. I’ll point her out at the
proper time,” said Fagin. “You keep ready, and leave the rest to me.”

That night, and the next, and the next again, the spy sat booted and
equipped in his carter’s dress, ready to turn out at a word from Fagin.
Six nights passed,—six long weary nights,—and on each Fagin came home
with a disappointed face, and briefly intimated that it was not yet
time. On the seventh he returned earlier, and with an exultation he
could not conceal. It was Sunday.

“She goes abroad to-night,” said Fagin, “and on the right errand, I’m
sure; for she has been alone all day, and the man she is afraid of
will not be back much before daybreak. Come with me. Quick!”

Noah started up without saying a word, for the Jew was in a state of
such intense excitement that it infected him. They left the house
stealthily, and, hurrying through a labyrinth of streets, arrived at
length before a public-house, which Noah recognised as the same in
which he had slept on the night of his arrival in London.

It was past eleven o’clock, and the door was closed. It opened softly
on its hinges as the Jew gave a low whistle. They entered without
noise, and the door was closed behind them.

Scarcely venturing to whisper, but substituting dumb show for words,
Fagin and the young Jew who had admitted them pointed out the pane of
glass to Noah, and signed to him to climb up and observe the person in
the adjoining room.

“Is that the woman?” he asked, scarcely above his breath.

The Jew nodded yes.

“I can’t see her face well,” whispered Noah. “She is looking down, and
the candle is behind her.”

“Stay there,” whispered Fagin. He signed to Barney, who withdrew. In
an instant the lad entered the room adjoining, and, under pretence of
snuffing the candle, moved it into the required position, and, speaking
to the girl, caused her to raise her face.

“I see her now,” cried the spy.

“Plainly?” asked the Jew.

“I should know her among a thousand.”

He hastily descended as the room-door opened, and the girl came out.
Fagin drew him behind a small partition which was curtained off, and
they held their breaths as she passed within a few feet of their place
of concealment, and emerged by the door at which they had entered.

“Hist!” cried the lad who held the door. “Now.”

Noah exchanged a look with Fagin, and darted out.

“To the left,” whispered the lad; “take the left hand, and keep on the
other side.”

He did so, and by the light of the lamps saw the girl’s retreating
figure already at some distance before him. He advanced as near as he
considered prudent, and kept on the opposite side of the street, the
better to observe her motions. She looked nervously round twice or
thrice, and once stopped to let two men who were following close behind
her pass on. She seemed to gather courage as she advanced, and to walk
with a steadier and firmer step. The spy preserved the same relative
distance between them, and followed with his eye upon her.




CHAPTER XLIV.

THE APPOINTMENT KEPT.


THE church clocks chimed three quarters past eleven as two figures
emerged on London Bridge. One, which advanced with a swift and rapid
step, was that of a woman, who looked eagerly about her as though in
quest of some expected object; the other figure was that of a man, who
slunk along in the deepest shadow he could find, and at some distance
accommodated his pace to hers, stopping when she stopped, and, as she
moved again, creeping stealthily on, but never allowing himself, in the
ardour of his pursuit, to gain upon her footsteps. Thus they crossed
the bridge from the Middlesex to the Surrey shore, when the woman,
apparently disappointed in her anxious scrutiny of the foot-passengers,
turned back. The movement was sudden, but he who watched her was not
thrown off his guard by it, for shrinking into one of the recesses
which surmount the piers of the bridge, and leaning over the parapet
the better to conceal his figure, he suffered her to pass by on the
opposite pavement, and when she was about the same distance in advance
as she had been before, he slipped quietly down and followed her again.
At nearly the centre of the bridge she stopped. The man stopped too.

It was a very dark night. The day had been unfavourable, and at that
hour and place there were few people stirring. Such as there were
hurried quickly past, very possibly without seeing, but certainly
without noticing, either the woman or the man who kept her in view.
Their appearance was not calculated to attract the importunate regards
of such of London’s destitute population, as chanced to take their way
over the bridge that night in search of some cold arch or doorless
hovel wherein to lay their heads; they stood there in silence, neither
speaking nor spoken to by any one who passed.

A mist hung over the river, deepening the red glare of the fires
that burnt upon the small craft moored off the different wharfs, and
rendering darker and more indistinct the mirky buildings on the banks.
The old smoke-stained storehouses on either side rose heavy and dull
from the dense mass of roofs and gables, and frowned sternly upon
water too black to reflect even their lumbering shapes. The tower of
old Saint Saviour’s church, and the spire of Saint Magnus, so long the
giant-warders of the ancient bridge, were visible in the gloom; but the
forest of shipping below bridge, and the thickly scattered spires of
churches above, were nearly all hidden from the sight.

The girl had taken a few restless turns to and fro—closely watched
meanwhile by her hidden observer—when the heavy bell of St. Paul’s
tolled for the death of another day. Midnight had come upon the crowded
city. The palace, the night-cellar, the jail, the madhouse; the
chambers of birth and death, of health and sickness; the rigid face of
the corpse and the calm sleep of the child—midnight was upon them all.

The hour had not struck two minutes, when a young lady, accompanied
by a grey-haired gentleman, alighted from a hackney-carriage within a
short distance of the bridge, and, having dismissed the vehicle, walked
straight towards it. They had scarcely set foot upon its pavement when
the girl started, and immediately made towards them.

They walked onwards, looking about them with the air of persons who
entertained some very slight expectation which had little chance of
being realised, when they were suddenly joined by this new associate.
They halted with an exclamation of surprise, but suppressed it
immediately, for a man in the garments of a countryman came close
up—brushed against them, indeed—at that precise moment.

“Not here,” said Nancy hurriedly. “I am afraid to speak to you here.
Come away—out of the public road—down the steps yonder.”

As she uttered these words, and indicated with her hand the direction
in which she wished them to proceed, the countryman looked round, and
roughly asking what they took up the whole pavement for, passed on.

[Illustration: _The Meeting._]

The steps to which the girl had pointed were those which, on the Surrey
bank, and on the same side of the bridge as Saint Saviour’s church,
form a landing-stairs from the river. To this spot the man bearing the
appearance of a countryman hastened unobserved; and after a moment’s
survey of the place, he began to descend.

These stairs are a part of the bridge; they consist of three flights.
Just below the end of the second, going down, the stone wall on the
left terminates in an ornamental pier, or pedestal, facing towards
the Thames. At this point the lower steps widen, so that a person
turning that angle of the wall is necessarily unseen by any others on
the stairs who chance to be above him, if only a step. The countryman
looked hastily round when he reached this point, and as there seemed no
better place of concealment, and the tide being out there was plenty of
room, he slipped aside, with his back to the pier, and there waited,
pretty certain that they would come no lower, and that even if he
could not hear what was said, he could follow them again with safety.

So tardily stole the time in this lonely place, and so eager was the
spy to penetrate the motives of an interview so different from what
he had been led to expect, that he more than once gave the matter
up for lost, and persuaded himself either that they had stopped far
above, or resorted to some entirely different spot to hold their
mysterious conversation. He was on the very point of emerging from his
hiding-place, and regaining the road above, when he heard the sound of
footsteps, and directly afterwards of voices, almost close at his ear.

He drew himself straight upright against the wall, and, scarcely
breathing, listened attentively.

“This is far enough,” said a voice, which was evidently that of the
gentleman. “I will not suffer this young lady to go any further. Many
people would have distrusted you too much to have come even so far, but
you see I am willing to humour you.”

“To humour me!” cried the voice of the girl whom he had followed.
“You’re considerate, indeed, sir. To humour me! Well, well, it’s no
matter.”

“Why, for what,” said the gentleman in a kinder tone, “for what purpose
can you have brought us to this strange place? Why not have let me
speak to you above there, where it is light, and there is something
stirring, instead of bringing us to this dark and dismal hole?”

“I told you before,” replied Nancy, “that I was afraid to speak to you
there. I don’t know why it is,” said the girl, shuddering, “but I have
such a fear and dread upon me to-night that I can hardly stand.”

“A fear of what?” asked the gentleman, who seemed to pity her.

“I scarcely know of what,” replied the girl. “I wish I did. Horrible
thoughts of death, and shrouds with blood upon them, and a fear that
has made me burn as if I was on fire, have been upon me all day. I was
reading a book to-night to wile the time away, and the same things came
into the print.”

“Imagination,” said the gentleman, soothing her.

“No imagination,” replied the girl in a hoarse voice. “I’ll swear I saw
‘coffin’ written in every page of the book in large black letters,—ay,
